Cataloging and profiling genes expressed in Lentinula edodes fruiting body by massive cDNA pyrosequencing and LongSAGE. 

This study investigated the molecular mechanism of the fruiting body development and sporulation in the cap of the Shiitake mushroom, Lentinula edodes. Although there has been much research into L. edodes, there remain significant gaps in our knowledge of how the species reproduces. In order to provide molecular resources and to understand the molecular mechanism of the fruiting body development in basidiomycete comprehensively, we searched for the genes which are important for fruiting body development and sporulation in the cap of mature fruiting body of L. edodes by using the whole-genome approach. Massive cDNA pyrosequencing was used to generate >7000 sequence contigs from mature fruiting bodies. We used Gene Ontology to categorize the contigs to form the catalog of genes expressed at the stage of the mature fruiting body. We also assigned the contigs into the KEGG pathways. The catalog of expressed genes indicates that the mature fruiting bodies (1) sense the external environment, (2) transmit signals to express genes through regulatory systems, (3) produce many proteins, (4) degrade unwanted proteins, (5) perform extensive biosynthesis, (6) generate energy, (7) regulate the internal environment, (8) transport molecules, (9) carry out cell division, and (10) differentiate and develop. After establishing the catalog of expressed genes in L. edodes, we used the LongSAGE approach to analyze the expression levels of genes found in mature fruiting bodies before (FB) and after (FBS) spores appeared. Gene-expression patterns according to GO categories were similar in these two stages. We have also successfully identified genes differentially expressed in FB and FBS. Fold-changes in expression levels of selected genes based on LongSAGE tag counts were similar to those obtained by real-time RT-PCR. The consistency between real-time RT-PCR and LongSAGE results indicates reliability of the LongSAGE results. Overall, this study provides valuable information on the fruiting processes of L. edodes through a combination of massive cDNA pyrosequencing and LongSAGE sequencing, and the knowledge thereby obtained may provide insight into the improvement of the yield of commercially grown Shiitake mushrooms. 
