Influence of proximity to a geographical range limit on the physiology of a tropical bird. 

1. Species' geographical ranges can be limited by a variety of biotic and abiotic factors. Physiological challenge in response to unsuitable environmental conditions can establish limits to geographical ranges. 2. We studied the physiology of Song Wrens (Cyphorhinus phaeocephalus) across their geographical range on the isthmus of Panama, an area characterized by a strong rainfall gradient. Wrens are common on the Caribbean slope of the isthmus where annual rainfall is greatest, but wren abundance declines towards the south as annual rainfall declines. Song Wrens are completely absent from the driest third of the isthmus. 3. We searched for the existence of a physiologically induced distribution limit by measuring body condition (an integrative measure of energy balance), hematocrit (% packed red blood cells in a given blood sample), and corticosterone levels (CORT, a steroid hormone that regulates the availability of energy and the endocrine stress response) in males and females. We caught birds by luring them into nets when they responded to playback of conspecific song. 4. Wrens living in drier habitat near the geographical range edge were significantly more likely to have abnormally low hematocrit scores. Baseline CORT levels were negatively associated with rainfall in one of our three best-fit path models, indicating potential energetic challenge in some individuals. Maximum CORT levels during a 60-min period of restraint correlated significantly only with sex, being higher in females. Birds with the poorest body condition lived at the dry end of the gradient. Birds on the wet end of the gradient responded fastest to conspecific song. 5. Environmental conditions vary across geographical ranges and may influence the physiological conditions of organisms, thereby enforcing limits to species' distributions. Highly specialized species, such as birds of the rain forest understory, may be especially susceptible to environmental variation associated with changing climatic conditions. 
