is explained by the high population of this fish off the coast of Norway and the use of purse spines, which accounted for 455,000 t. The Soviet Union has greatly intensified its fishing for mackerel in recent years, in the northwestern Pacific (to 80,000 t) and off West Africa (to 150,000 t)  Doubtless, mackerel fishing is quite promising.
The catch of Carangidae had increased by a factor of 16 by 1970 in comparison to the prewar level (1938), and there is every reason to assume the possibility of further increases. Thus, off the coast of Japan in some years the catch of this fish has even been artificially held down. Large accumulations of mackerel have recently been found off the Tasmanian coast. In the opinion of many scientists, it will be possible to catch as many as 1 million tons of pelagic fish per year near New Zealand, including many Carangidae. The greatest quantity of Japanese mackerel are caught in the East China Sea and off the coast of Japan (510-56010t), as well as in the Philippines (LOOLO t)  Other species of Carangidae are caught off the west coast of Africa, where fishing is conducted primarily by ships of the USSR (ISOLO-t)  Angola (170 10 t) and Spain (70 -lO-t).
A lesser role in the sea fish catch (up to 1710" t) is played by the tuna, although due to the high value of the meat of this fish, tuna fishing is significantly more successful economically than fishing for most other types of fish. Therefore, the tuna catch develops from year to year, and at the present time is conducted in the open Pacific, Atlantic and Indian Oceans. Tuna inhabit the great water areas of the ocean, forming no dense accumulations, making it more difficult to catch them. However, information on the results of tuna fishing indicates that the trend is doubtless toward decreasing effectiveness (Table 12). For example, the catch of yellowfin and blue-finned tuna decreased from 8 fish per 100 hooks on a longline in 1950 to 2 in 1965. The reserves of large tuna are being caught with great intensity in almost all regions of the ocean, and the only hope for any significant development of tuna fishing lies in more intensive fishing of the smaller and stripe-bellied tuna.
The overwhelming majority of tuna (50-60) is caught by Japan. Significantly smaller quantities are caught by the fisherman of the USA, France, Spain and Peru. The Soviet Union catches but a few thousands of tons of the valuable fish.
When tuna is fished using longlines, swordfish and sharks are caught in large quantities. Sharks, rays and chimaera are also the objects of a specialized fishing industry. The annual catch of sharks-in recent years (1968-1975) has held steady at a level of about 400' 10 t, of rays at 90-140 -lO-t. This is much less than their actual reserves. The shark catch in the World Ocean could be at least doubled.
In addition to the commercial fish mentioned above, the world catch includes many representatives of various families of demersal fish, caught during trawling and other types of bottom fishing: Pleuronectidae (see Table 8), sea perch, Ammodytes, etc. (Table 13).
374

