from the Philippine Islands. 85
that the Philippines once formed part of the great Malayan extension of Asia, but that they were separated considerably earlier than Java and having been since greatly isolated and much broken up by volcanic disturbances, their species have for the most part been , modified into distinct local species" (Compare also Wallace, Geogr. Distrib. of Animals, I, 345 — 349).
The scrutiny of the small collection before me reveals in some groups traces of a rather striking specialization; but whether they will be sustained by further discovery, is still a question. I have been especially struck by the peculiar characters of the Tipulidae: the two species of Libnotes, described by me, have a peculiar coloring, different from that of the eleven known species of the same genus from other parts of South Eastern Asia. Eriocera is a genus abundantly represented in all the tropical regions of Asia and America, but most of the species have only four posterior cells; among two dozen described Eriocerae from S. E. Asia only five species have five posterior cells. Now, both species, which I describe from the Philippine Islands, have five posterior cells. The Ctenophora (Tipulidae) from the Islands also have some peculiarities in common.
As far as regards the genera, it is the family Ortalidae that seems to be the most specialized. I have been obliged to introduce in it not less than four new genera, all of them remarkable forms, not known before (Antineuraphilocompusxenaspisnaupoda). The other new genera introduced by me are:
Scamboneura (Tipulidae), which also occurs in Amboina; Eurybata (Micropezidae)  represented in Amboina by a closely allied form, which I provisionally refer to the same genus.
Notopsila (Ortalidae), merely a new name for Pachycephala Dolesch, which is preoccupied. It likewise occurs in Amboina, and is closely related to the Australian Euprosopiae.
Asyntona (Ortalidae) from Amboina; I have described it on account of its relationship to Naupoda.
That the Islands, especially the Northern parts of Luon, have some points in common with China is very probable, but hardly possible to ascertain now, on account of the insufficient knowledge of the Chinese fauna. Such points of contact between the two faunas have been shown to exist in the Lepidoptera (Compare the article of Mr. George Semper in the Stett. Entom. Zeit. 1875, p. 409) I have not been able to obtain data on the other orders of insects.
In the course of this paper I have used the terminology for the bristles, parts of the thorax etc. adopted by me in my recent paper: An Essay of comparative Chaetotaxy (Smith. Miinchener Entomol. Vereins, Vol. V). Heidelberg, Germany, January 1882. C. R. 0. S.

