62 xxii. dipterocarpeae. [Monotes Var. B. hypoleucus ; V. africana var. liypoleuca Oliv., l.c. ; Welw., l.c., p. 17, t. 5, fig. 12 ; Y. hypoleuca Welw., l.c., p. 17. Huilla. — Sparingly in the stony shorter woods between Mumpulla and Nene, in flower-bud Oct. 1859, in full flower Dec. 1859. No. 1036. The following is intermediate between a and /3 : — A small tree, 6 to 8 ft. high ; trunk erect ; crown divaricate, lax ; flowers yellowish. Huilla. — Sparingly in the higher wooded thickets of Proteacese between Lopollo and Monino, in flower-bud Nov. 1859, fl. Dec. 1859, in young fruit Jan. 1860. No. 1077. The following belongs to this species : — Huilla. — A small tree, with simple leaves and the calyx-segments after flowering expanded into red rather rigid wings. Coll. Carp. 242. XXIII. MALVACEAE. The Malvaceae of Angola form one of the principal constituents of the herbaceous and shrubby vegetation of the country, and are fairly abundant in all regions from the coast up to 6000 ft. (in the highest regions and plateaux), but are most abundant between 1500 and 4000 ft. They contribute both by the beauty and variety of their leaves — and even more by the size and bright colouration of their striking large blossoms — very greatly to the adorning of the meadows and plains, the jungles, and the margins of the woods and cultivated places, and relieve the somewhat monotonous colour of the vegetation. The species decrease in number from Mossamedes and the high plateau of Pluilla southwards. Malvaceae manage to subsist on many kinds of soil ; one and the same species is often seen to occur sometimes in dry hot sandy drifts, or in stony situations divested of other vegetation, and at other times in fertile situations on the margins of primitive forests or in inhabited districts on land previously cultivated ; the difference is that in poor ground the flowers are larger and more brilliant, while in rich ground there is more luxuriant development of stalks and foliage. The varying circumstances of soil and position exercise an important influence on the indumentum and render very difficult the discrimination of species and varieties, especially in the case of the genera Sida, Abutilon, etc. The shape and size of the glands, which occur on the nerves of the leaves and calyx in several species of Urena, Hibiscus, Gossypiwm, etc., are very interesting, but they are too indefinite and variable on the same plants to afford characters for the diagnosis of species. In order to avoid errors, it must be remembered that many species with yellow flowers turn their corollas red in drying, and also that several species, especially of Sida, Abutilon, and Hibiscus, at the time of flowering, lose the long-stalked principal leaves of the main stem and retain only the very different younger leaves of the axillary shoots. The native medical men employ several species as emollients in baths and gargles in the same way as they are used in Europe. 
