52 ACCOUNT OF A TRIP UP THE PAHANG, AND OTHER RIVERS. At one spot, among other plants, a new wild plantain was collected, with the flower bracts of a bright yellow instead of either violet or brown as in the two common Peninsular species.

The entrance to the Tahan River is marked by dense jungle coming down to the water's edge, and the flora here is very different to that of the Tembeling and Pahang Rivers, though some characteristic plants of this region had found their way down the former river for some way. The greater number of novelties found during the expedition were collected in the Tahan valley, among the more interesting of which were a very fine new species of Dipterocarpus (D. pulcherrimus) a big tree with hard red timber. At the time of our visit it was covered with its pink two-winged fruits. The flowers, which like those of most Dipterocarpi are large and creamy pink with a delicious fragrancy, were also collected. The well-known "Champedak," (Artocarpus polyphemia) is truly wild in these woods. "Pulawan," (Tristania Whitiana), with corymbs of evil-smelling white flowers was another abundant tree. Oaks and nutmegs were comparatively rare. Of palms, "Ebol" Orania macrocladiis Bl.), "Langkap" ( Arenga obtusiloba Miq.), Caryota mitis Lour, and "Bayas" (Oncosperma horrida) were common, and the grand "Daun Payoh" (Teysmannia altifrons Miq.) was met with in several places. The paddle-shaped blades of the leaf of this palm were over six feet long, and form excellent roofs for huts. Of the smaller plants there were a number of Pinangas of all sizes, Licualas, and Iguanuras, two or three Zalaccas, and a number of kinds of rattans. Along the banks of the river many of the herbs and shrubs growing nearest to the water were noticed to have peculiarly long and narrow leaves; among these were a Calophyllum (new), an Ixora, an Antidesma, a small fig, ( Ficus pyrifolia), a little purple flowered Hygrophila, and a curious new genus of Asclepiads, a Podochilus and some aroids. These all grew on the rocks close to the water's edge, and must have been subjected to constant rushes of water when the river, as it often does, suddenly rises. In such a case as this, the broader leaved plants would suffer heavily, as the rush of the stream would tear their 
