PHILIPPINE DIPTEROCARPACEAE. 235 great extent. Dr. Whitford has shown that the dipterocarps in the Philippines frequently form almost solid stands over considerable areas. These stands are made up of several species. The trees are usually of large size, erect and comparatively free from prop-roots; although Pentacme, Anisoptera and some others do occasion-ally form fair-sized low prop-roots. Time of flowering and fruiting.— It is because of our ignorance of this that our knowledge of the generic position of some species is so vague. The great size of many of the trees maKes it a difficult matter to collect herbarium material from them. They stand out above the others in the forest and are much less likely to be covered with climbing vines. Much the most' practicable method of collecting herbarium material, is by chopping the tree down. As the average collector ii unwilling to take so much trouble, the material secured is often very frag-mentary, and material picked up under the tree does not furnish the safest indication of the condition of the plant. An indication of the time of flowering or fruiting is obtained by the finding of flowers or fruits on the ground under the tree. Very often the only fruiting material we have of a particular species has been so found. Indications seem to point to a very definite flowering season for some species and to a widely extended season for others. Dipterocarpus grandiflorus Blanco has been collected in flower in the months of January, February, March, April, May, June, and December; and in fruit in January, February, May, June, August, and September. The variable climatic conditions in different parts of the Islands are probably respon-sible for this. Even in the same section, as in Bataan, there is a good deal of variation, perhaps due to soil, exposure and moisture conditions. This species and a number of others seem to flower regularly every year. There are some species, as Hopea plagata (Blanco) Yu}., winch are reputed to flower only once in several years. I think it likely that most species flower, at least partially, each year. When fruit is produced, it is found in great quantity ; but, there seems to be a very low percentage of germination. The seeds lie on the surface of the ground and germinate quickly, if at all. They seem to require a fairly constant and uniform amount of moisture for germination and the seedlings die quickly if exposed to the hot sun. It seems that the seeds occasionally germinate while still on the tree. Certain species, as Shorea eximia contain fatty material in the seeds, which are greedily eaten by wild pigs and other animals. Such seeds as these disappear very quickly, within a few days after falling. t . i i Shortly after germination, the wings fall off and the thick, divided cotyledons are quickly raised on the long hypocotyl. •This Journal 4 (1910) Bot. 09<)-725.
