FISHERY RESOURCES OP THE PHILIPPINES, I. 519
THE MILKFISHES. Family Chanid^. (PI. X)
The five or milkfish Chanos chanos (Forskal), called baitgos, haiigod, kaivag-hawag, and iumulocso by the Filipinos and iangellus by the Moros, is one of the most important commercial fishes in the Islands. It ranges over the entire group, from northern Luzon to Sitanki and is the most abundant fish in the Manila market. Frequently, during protracted rough weather it is the only variety obtainable. It is raised chiefly in the fish ponds at Malabon and at other places near Manila and therefore can be secured at any time regardless of the weather.
This fish is particularly adapted to pond culture, being a vegetable feeder of rapid growth. The bangos superficially resembles the mullet, but can easily be distinguished by the fact that the mullet has two fins on the back, while the bangos has but one. The bangos frequently reaches a length of 12 meters and then it is termed Iumulocso. The eggs are deposited in the sea. The young appear during the months of April, Maj, June, and July and are called kawag-kaivag. They are supplied with a yolk-sack which furnishes them with food until they are about 14 millimeters in length. At this age they are to be found in great numbers along the beaches of Zambales, Batangas, Mindoro, Marinduque, and doubtless in numerous other places. Here they are captured by the natives and placed in large earthen jars full of water called palyok. They are then conveyed to the fish ponds, frequently a hundred miles distant. (Fig. 1)
One of the jars, palyok, contains about 3, 500 young biiitgos. They sell for from 20 to 25 pesos per isong lacca (10,000) ; about six lacs (60,000) are used to stock one pond of 1 hectare. As the fish grow they are thinned out by transfer to other ponds. Thirty-three per cent should reach marketable size. Four months after the transfer the bangos should each be 25 centimeters in length. This size of fish retails for 9 centavos each; in 8 months the young are each 40 centimeters long and bring 20 centavos, while a yearling should measure half a meter and bring from 50 to 60 centavos.
FISH PONDS.
Almost any kind of ground other than a sandy soil will do for a fish pond. It should be near salt water and not beyond the influence of the tide, as the bangos thrive best, in brackish water. A complete system should have at least four ponds. These should be so constructed that one equals in area at least that of the other tliiee combined.
'I am indebted to Mr. W. D. Carpenter of Malabon for most of the information regarding fish ponds.

