VATICA ROXBURGHIANA. (Nat. ord. Dipterocarpeae.) VATICA. Linn. — GEN. CHAR. Tube of the calyx very small adnate to the torus or base of the ovary, not or scarcely enlarging with the fruit ; divisions rather acute, when very young imbricate but soon open or pseudo-valvate, enlarging with the fruit, equal or unequal and patent. Stamens 35, anthers oblong or linear rarely ovate, connective generally with a short apiculation, ovary 3 celled, cells 2 ovuled, style short with a clavate apex, or long subulate, Stigma entire or 3 toothed, capsule thick woody indehiscent, or 3 valved 1-2 seeded. Trees, bearing resin, stipules small fugacious or inconspicuous, leaves entire coriaceous penniveined and reticulato-venose, flowers in axillary or terminal panicles. See. I. Isauxis. — Enlarged divisions of the calyx equal, patent below the fruit. See. II. Euvatica. — Enlarged divisions of the calyx very unequal wing like, patent below the fruit. The 2 Southern Indian species both belong to Isauxis. VATICA ROXBURGHIANA. (Wight.) A large tree, young branches petioles and inflorescence minutely furfuraceous 9 leaves glabrous above except the costa, which with the costa and veins beneath is slightly scaly, ovate to oblong with an~obtuse point rounded or obtuse at the base, furnished with 10-14 primary veins on each side, 4-8 inches long by 2-3 1/4 broad, petiole 1 1/4-2 inches long, panicles axillary shorter thau the leaves, branchlets few flowered, calyx and outside of petals furfuraceous, divisions of the former acute enlarging in fruit and then 5 nerved and glabrescent, petals & times as long as the calyx, stamens 15 in 2 rows, anthers oblong with a short apiculation, style nearly double the length of the anthers, stigma clavate obscurely 3 or 6 lobed. fruit globose not sulcated crowned with a small nipple-like point at the apex, rough with minute raised reticulations aud furfuraceous, hard woody and indehiscent. Wight III.  Common in some of our western coast forests, 'particularly in the South Canara jungles, and planted in avenues, etc. in Travancore. also indigenous in Ceylon, where it is called Mendora ; its limber is much valued in Ceylon, but I have not seen it in use in India; the tree produces a gum-resin. / V ^p6^la^ 9.5 
