GEOLOGIC RECONNAISSANCE OF MINDANAO AND SULU. 495
We halted for the night at 75 meters' elevation at Sinauilan Creek, where soft, brownish-gray sandstone and conglomerate is exposed.
December 19, 1907  Left camp at 6 a. m. Not much change either in topography or geology is apparent. Arrived at Digos, a small barrio on the coast of Davao Gulf, about 12 m, after a long walk over ground gently sloping to the beach. Here we spent the rest of the day and the night.
December 20, 1907  We sent our cargadores and guard oi to Davao by trail while we took the launch Bolinao which stopped off this point at noon. We arrived at Davao about 7 p. m. after stopping at two or three plantations on the way and went ashore the morning of the 21st.
At Digos we obtained our first clear-but view of Apo. The mountain, stood out clearly and boldly, a sharp cone set to the south and back of an older truncated mass which had evidently blown off its head in some firiniordial paroxysm. On the southeastern side is a huge crevasse, from which puffs of a bluish-white vapor issue. Below 2,100 meters there is a dense Jungle, a mass of green, but above this line the surface is all barren rock and apparently treeless, although when we ascended the mountain we found small bushes of blueberries.
The present high peak known as Apo did not pour the great mass of lava and rock over this entire region. The explosion crater was about 8 kilometers to the northeast. Fig. 4 shows a profile sketch of this mountain-'
A walk back over the plain behind Davao is interesting. About 300 meters behind the town, or about 2 kilometers from the beach, unmistakable signs of old beach lines are found, marked by one distinct terrace at least 15 to 33 meters above the flat on which the town is located. All this territory is made up of alluvial wash from the hills. The bowlders are largely andesitic.
Lieutenant Caffery left the party at Davao to return to Zamboanga. Without his assistance the reconnaissance, up to the point where Davao was reached, would have been impossible.
Daron, on the west side of the Gulf of Davao, was the starting point for the ascent of Mount Apo, the party consisting of Mr. Ickis, Mr. Goodman, who had just arrived from Manila, and Messrs. Carrigan and
"" A good picture of Mount Apo will be found in the article on Volcanoes and Seismic Centers, in the Census of the Philippine Islands. (1903), 1, 201.

