DESCRIPTION OF SPECIES 19
a height of about 10 meters, and often nearly exclusively occupying considerable areas. Forester Medina has surveyed two tracts of this bamboo in Bataan Province, one containing 1,200 hectares, of which 800 hectares have a dense stand; the second containing 650 hectares, of which more than 40 per cent is covered with Schizostachyum lumampao. There are also very extensive areas in other parts of Bataan, in Zambales, and in the Cagayan Valley. Fifteen small plots of Schizostachyum lumampao have been measured in Bataan Province back of the town of Limay. These plots aggregated 35 hectares and covered stands at widely separated intervals. The surveys showed an average of 8,983 canes per hectare. One of the surveys of one quarter of a hectare indicated a stand of 19,162 canes per hectare.
This thin-walled bamboo is the species chiefly utilized in making the building matting known as sawale. It is also used for making baskets, fences, fish corrals, fish poles, flutes, and for many other purposes.
Buho has been thoroughly investigated by Richmond as a paper-making material, and it is probably the one species of Philippine bamboo that, without extensive cultivation, promises commercial possibilities for this purpose. This point will be discussed in a bulletin on paper. Observations on its rate of growth are given later. This species is illustrated in Plate I (frontispiece) and Plates XXVIII and XXIX.
SCHIZOSTACHYUM TEXTORIUM (Blanco) Merr. Kalbang.
Common name: kalbang (Tagalog).
This is an erect bamboo with small leaves, which is locally abundant in the Provinces of Batangas and Rizal, Luzon. The stems are used in the manufacture of looms, as they are very straight and smooth. A flowering specimen is shown in Plate XXXII.
Among the other Philippine representatives of the genus are Schizostachyum palawanense (Plate XXXI), a scandent species known from Palawan and Laguna; S. hirtiflorum (Plate XXVI), a widely distributed species closely allied to and with the same growth form as S. lumampao; S. toppingii (Plate XXXIII), erect or subscandent, reported from Laguna, Rizal, and Mindoro; S. curranii (Plate XXIII), scandent, a species of higher altitudes in northern Luzon; S. luzonicum (Plate XXX), known only from Zambales; and S. fenixii (Plate XXV), reported from Abra, Cagayan, Benguet, Ilocos Sur, and Panay, known as paua in Iloilo, and puser in Abra, Luzon, and there utilized in the manufacture of baskets.

