1893.] G. King — Materials for a Flora of the Malayan Peninsula. 101 tea odorata. This plant has been named Synaptea grandiflora by Kurz, ( Journ. A.S., Beng\, 1870, 2, 65), and Anisoptera odorata Kurz, (For. Flor. Burm. I, 112), while Dyer has identified it with Hopea grandiflora, Wall, Cat. 958, and reduced it to Vatica grandiflora (F.B.I., i., 301). The characters of the genus Synaptea, as given by its author, are practically those of Vatica, Linnaeus (Mantissa II., p. 152-3, No. 1311), except that, whereas in the Linnaean description nothing is said about the fruit or its relation to the calyx, Griffith distinctly explains that he has given the name Synaptea because the ovary is adnate to the calyx. He does not say to what extent adnate, but, in fruiting specimens of his Synaptea odorata, the adhesion extends to the lower part only. In the " Mantissa " of Linnaeus, only one species of Vatica is described, viz., V. chinensis ; and of the specimen thus named in the Linnasan Herbarium, Sir J. G-. Smith publishes a figure (Smith Ic, ined., t. 36.). This figure however does not show clearly whether the base of the ovary is, or is not, adherent to the calyx, and the fruit is not figured at all. A reference to Linnaeus' speci-men ought to settle what V. chinensis really is ; but unfortunately it has not settled it. I have not myself examined the actual Lin-naean specimen ; but the opinions of botanists who have examined it vary as to its identity. The plant is generally admitted not to be of Chinese origin, for no Dipterocai'p is known to inhabit China. "Wight and Arnot are of opinion (Prod. 84) that Vatica chinensis is the same as Vatica laccifera, W. A. (Shorea Talura, Roxb.— fide Dyer). Alph. De Candolle (Prod. XVI., 2, p. 619) keeps up the species V. chinensis, while Dyer (Fl. Br. Ind., I, 302) reduces it to Vatica Roxburghiana, Blume (Mus. Bot. Lugd. Bat. II, 31. t. 7.), Blume's Vatica Roxburghiana, being, as the citations and figure given by that author show, the Valeria Boxburghiana of Wight's Illustrations, p. 87, and Icones t. 26. It cannot be demonstrated, therefore, either from Linnaeus' description or specimen, or from Smith's figure of the latter, whether Linnaeus intended his genus Vatica to include only plants with the ovary and fruit free from the calyx, or whether plants in which there is such partial adhesion might not also be admitted. If the latter were the case there would be no occasion to keep up the genus Synaptea. This is the view adopted by Messrs. Hooker and Bentham, who remark of Synaptea, " ex descriptione auctoris verisimiliter ad Vaticam referenda est." This view is also adopted by Dyer, in " Hooker's Flora of British India," where he reduces Synaptea odorata, Griff., to the genus Vatica, Section Eu-Vatica. This view is also to a certain extent adopted by Burck who (Ann. Jard. Bot. Buitenzorg) makes Synaptea a section of Vatica, characterised by having the lobes of the fruiting 
