162 FIELDIANA: ZOOLOGY, VOLUME 51
H. a. catarmanensis
Camiguin South cf 70-75 9 71-76 mm.
Range. — Camiguin South; lowlands to 4,950 feet on peak of Mount Camiguin.
Remarks. — For comparison we have large series of H. a. azurae from Luzon, Negros, and Mindanao, moderate series from Palawan, Bohol, Siquijor, Samar, Cebu, and one or a few specimens from each of Polillo, Sibuyan, Romblon, Mindoro, Guimaras, and Basilan. Males and females are about equally represented in all these series, every blue-backed bird has the black nape patch, usually of considerably greater extent than in that of the Camiguin South birds with the largest patch. The size of the black throat band is variable, rarely absent. All the females have brown backs (of various shades of brown or greyish-brown)
There is always a possibility of some mis-sexing of specimens in the field, but the blue-backed females from Camiguin South are not like any specimens, male or female, from any other islands.
The following tentative conclusions are advanced.
There is a reduction in sexual dimorphism through the female becoming partly cock-feathered, notably in the blue back, and the male becoming more like this new type female through the partial loss of the black nape patch.
There is an indication, from this collection, that the female may be dimorphic, most (4 out of 5) are much like dull males but without black markings; a few (1 out of 5) are more like the female of H. a. azurae. However, this may be an earlier plumage, special to the immature female in this population.
There are two other species of the genus in Philippines: H. helenae, Camiguin North, Luzon (series Field Museum), Samar, Mindanao; and H. coelestis, Luzon, Negros, Sibuyan, Dinagat, Mindanao, Basilan; and neither is known to occur on Camiguin South. One may be tempted to consider the possibility that this absence has allowed sexual dimorphism to decrease. But, there are other islands in the Philippines, with only H. azure; and over most of the range of H. azure it is the only representative of the genus. Birds from Nepal have the same male and female mode of plumage as do those of H. a. azurae of Philippines.
Dicaeum trigonostigma
Salomonsen, 1960, Amer. Mus. Novit, No. 1991, pp. 28-37.
