i
distribution  Philippines, Borneo, Celebes, Inner South Seas
morphology  Body a dark red-brown with small scattered dark blue spots. These ire rather indistinct in large specimens. Grows very large, ordinarily about 1 meter, occasionally close to 2 meters in length.
Toxicity  Three out of 10 mice used were affected to some degree, and one died. (The animals were not tested for mild sensory impairment)
This species also caused some diarrhoea.
A case iras reported of poisoning in human beings in which the fish was stewed Ln soy sauce amd one slice was eaten for supper. During the night vomiting and diarrhea began. The next morning the victim's Joints were stiff and he experienced difficulty in walking. In another case the tongue and the area around the mouth became time and stiffened. A person ratio had been poisoned by this species at Okinawa recalled that it caused vomiting and diarrhoea and that he felt numb for p. 74] about a week afterward. No case iras reported in which the poison was fatal Tables 71, 72, 73]
This species is thought to be of a mild degree of toxicity, only rare cases being reported of a strong degree.
The following very similar edible fish is cited for purposes of identification Page 75]
3. Yogorehata (Plate 15 Figure 42)
Scientific name  Plectropomus sp.
Local name  joanuron (a variety of more or more , tamakai (Japanese)
Characteristics  Very similar to the preceding species; it can be distinguished
by its larger spots. The ground color is brighter in this species. It is sold
Ln the markets as an edible fish and is nonpoisonous  The Japanese call it
tanaka and prize it 8 food. The flesh is white and is very good sliced and served
paw or stewed in soy sauce, since it is quite oily. The word more or more is used very broadly at Jaluit, being equivalent to hata or t nakai general veins for serranids, and includes both poisonous and nonpoisonous species. Table 74]
4. Amadaredokuhata (Plate 16 Figure 43)
Scientific name  Plectropomus oligacanldius Bleeker Local name  Julae' irshalle8e)
Distribution  Indian Ocean, E. Indies, Philippines, Inner South Seas Morphology  Uie markings are distinctive, blue lines and spots on a blaokishji Drown ground color. On the head and back the blue lines run roughly horizontally. The spots are either scattered over the sides of the body, or form vertical rows (treuiaversely across the body) posterior to the pectoral fin. There are horizontal lines on the soft parts of the dorsal and anal fins.
Toxicity  Judging from the results of all the experiments on animals, except Ln the case of a mouse which ate the liver, this species is violently poisonous.
The Jaluit natives consider this fish deadly and do not eat it. It is readily taken on hook and line and abounds near the encircling reefs, but no cases page 76] Table 75] of poisoning were reported, probably because its coloring is so distinctive.
43

