114 G. King — Materials for a Flora of the Malayan Peninsula. [No. 2, surface glabrescent or glabrous, chocolate-coloured when dry: main nerves 10 to 12 pairs, curved, spreading, prominent on the lower surface; length 4 to 6 in., breadth 135 to P75 in.; petiole .4 to .5 in., rugose. Panicles axillary or terminal, 4 to 7 in. long, lax, branch-ing, few-flowered, puberulous, spai.sely scaly. Floioers about .5 in. long, sessile, solitary, not secund. Sepals distinct almost to the base, slightly unequal, broadly-ovate, acute, more or less yellowish-tomentose outside, glabrous inside. Petals narrowly oblong, slightly oblique at the base, the apex blunt, glabrous except one-half of the outer surface which is sericeous. Stamens 15, in two rows; filaments broad except at the apex, those of the outer two rows by much the shorter: anthers short, ovate, the connective minutely awned. Ovary elongated-ovoid, sericeous in its upper half; style short, stigma small. Ripe fruit .6 to .75 in. long, narrowly ovoid, pale puberulous, apiculate: sepals all enlarged and reticulate, slightly concave at the base and embracing, but not adnate to, the fruit; the three outer narrowly oblong, obtuse, tapering slightly to the auricled base, 7-nerved, 3.5 to 4.5 in. long, and .8 to 1 in. broad; the two inner variable, but shorter, narrower and fewer nerved. Shorea aitriculata, Scortechini MSS. in Herb., Calcutta. Malacca: Maingay. Singapore: Ridley. Penang: Curtis, No. 1392. Perak: very common, King.s Collector, Scortechini. A species from Borneo which closely resembles this appears to me to differ specifically. Its leaves are longer with sparser nerves, and its calyx-wings are longer. 8. Shorea Maxwelliana, King, n. sp. A tree 60 to 80 feet high: young branches dark-coloured, almost glabrous. Leaves coriaceous, ovate-lanceolate, acuminate (caudate-acuminate when young), the base unequal-sided, cuneate; both surfaces quite glabrous, the upper shining, the lower chocolate-coloured when dry: main nerves 6 or 7 pairs, curved, spreading, thin and inconspicuous: length 3 to 4 in., breadth 1.3 to 1.5 in., petiole -4 in. Panicles axillary and terminal, 25 to 3 in. long, stellate-puberulous, their lateral branches very short and few-flowered. Flowers shortly pedicelled. Sepals unequal, oblong, blunt, with enlarg-ed concave bases, more or less pubescent, but glabrous in the concavity of the base inside. Petals oblong, concave and saccate at the base, tomentose outside, glabrous inside. Stamens 10 (?), the filaments short, broad; the anthers elongate, erect, pointed, the connective end-ing in an awn as long as the anther. Ovary hemispheric; the style long, slender; stigma minute. Fruit (not mature) globular, minutely tomentose, closely invested by, but not adnate to, the concave bases of the sepals: sepals all enlarged, membranous, narrowly oblong, obtuse; 
