504 SPHINGIDAE. Gaertn., Premna integrifolia Linn., Vitex negundo Linn. (Verbenaceae), Anacardium occidentale Linn., the cashew-nut tree (Anacardiaceae), Calophyllum inophyllum. Linn., locally known as Undi (Guttiferae), and the convolvulaceous goat'sfoot creeper Ipomaea biloba Forsk. ; Cassytha filiformis Linn., of the Laurineae, is also common, a leafless, yellowish, thin-stemmed parasite infesting Premna and Ipomsea, &c.

The vegetation in Kanara is mainly of the Malayan type. Below the Ghats on the coast, on the Ghats themselves, and for some distance eastward it is altogether so. On the eastern boundaries it is of the Deccan type, passing gradually into the Malayan westwards. The Malayan type is largely evergreen and semi-evergreen, the trees being often very large both in height and circumference. The Deccan vegetation is composed of deciduous species, and the trees are much smaller. The main characteristics of the Malayan forest area are a heavy rainfall and laterite soil with a strong admixture of granite.

The evergreen forest is generally found above 1,000 feet elevation, all below that is semi -evergreen or deciduous. The evergreen type is more extensive in the southern half of the district than in the northern ; in the lower foot-hills along the coast the forest is deciduous, though there maybe a slight mixture of evergreen species along the streams and in the moister valleys. The crest of the Ghats is all evergreen, and this type of vegetation reaches well to the east as long as the hills, valleys and streams continue. The evergreen forests are characterized by very large trees, many reaching 200 feet in height, dense undergrowth, canes, ferns and various species of palms. Among the timber-trees we get Dipterocarpus turbinates Gaertn., several species of Calophyllum (Guttiferae), Cedrela toona Roxb., the toon, of the Meliaceae ; many members of the families Myrtaceae, Ebenaceae (ebony) and Laurineae (laurels) ; various figs and jackfruit-trees (Urticaceae) ; these are the most conspicuous. The underwood is largely composed of Murray a Linn., Glycosmis Corr. (Rutaceae) ; cinnamon, Litssea Lamk., Actinodaphne Nees (Laurineae), and gregarious Psychotria Linn, of various species ; Chasalia curviflora Thw. and many species oilxora (Rubiaceae). Herbaceous and semi-herbaceous species are represented by various Acanthaceae, climbing peppers, orchids, arums, Zinziberaceae and ferns.

In the Malayan type of deciduous forests there are very large trees of the families Meliaceae (Amoora Roxb., Chikrassia tabularis (Adr. Jussieu) ; Sapindaceae (Schleichera Willd. and Sapindis Linn.) ; Anacardiaceae (the wild mango and Spondias Linn., the hog-plum, Holigarna Ham., &c.) ; Leguminosae (Dalbergia Linn., Bauhinia Linn., Xylia Benth., Albizzia Durazz) ; Datiscaceae (Tetrameles nudiflora R. Br.) ; 
