352 The Philippine Journal of Science 1914
mentioned in the description of the large male as being present along the outer and inner sides of the cutting edge of the mobile finger and along the inner side of the immobile finger cannot be seen in the smallest males (Nos. la and 2) nor in any of the females except No.
39, in which they are slightly developed.
In the smallest young mature male (No.
3) they show slightly, becoming better developed in specimens of larger size (Nos.
4, 6, 11, 13, 15, 23).
"Males feminises" when sufficiently large (Nos.
7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 24, 25, 27), show the tubercles, but in one of these, No.
17, the row on the outer border of the cutting edge of the mobile finger is represented by only 2 tubercles.
In No.
18 this row is not present, but the inner row on each finger is well developed, while in Nos.
7, 8, 9, and 10 only very few tubercles along the inner border of both fingers are seen.
Numbers 14, 16, 20, 21, 22, 24, and 25 show the characteristic 2 rows on the mobile and 1 row on the immobile finger.
The palm in specimens of all sizes and sexes is similar in shape to that of the larger male already described.
In young specimens the fingers are a little shorter than the palm (1: 122 in No. la), but as the body length increases the palm grows faster than the fingers, until in the oldest male the fingers are only a little more than half the length of the palm.
It is probable that smaller specimens than those in our collection would show the fingers equal to, or even shorter than, the palm.
The carpus, which is cylindrical in cross section and a little shorter than the propodus in all our specimens, increases gradually in diameter, passing from the distal to the proximal end.
The palm is always shorter than the carpus, but a comparison of lengths at different ages indicates, in general, that the palm grows a little faster than the carpus, although considerable variability is seen in a series arranged according to the body length.
The relative lengths of the merus and carpus are shown in Table II, where the specimens are arranged according to increasing body length.
Here again much variability appears, but if the young mature males are separated the variability is not so marked.
The proportions given in Table II show clearly that, in general, the merus of the male does not increase in length as fast as the carpus.
This condition is not evident in the small number of females we have in the collection.
A similar and no less striking increase in the proportion of the merus to the carpus may be seen in the specimens of P. ritsemae de Man examined
