NUMBER 367
47
mm SL), and a reef inhabitant. It ranges from the Red Sea to the Hawaiian and Marquesas islands (Randall, 1981a).
GOBLOIDIDAE (including Taenioididae)
The gobioidids are small, elongate fishes (maximum size about 470 mm SL) living benthically on muddy bottoms, typically in brackish bays, although the same species may be taken offshore in marine waters and well up freshwater rivers. There are several genera, but probably fewer than 20 species, and these occur, variously, along the warm coastal areas of the eastern Pacific, eastern and western Atlantic, and Indo-west Pacific from Africa to Guam and New Guinea. Prior to my 1980 collecting trip to Ponape, Eastern Caroline Islands, gobioidids were unknown on the Pacific Plate nonmarginally. I obtained two genera (Table C, Appendix 2) in a single collection at Ponape, in a coarse muddy area adjacent to a river mouth and mangrove shore. The Caroline Islands chain apparently serves as a conduit permitting gobioidids to disperse to the Pacific Plate. I doubt that they occur further east than Kosrae (Kusaie) at the end of the chain. See also "Addendum"
GONORYNCHIDAE
The Gonorynchidae consists of a single genus, Gonorynchus, and perhaps as many as six species (the genus has not been revised). The gonorynchids attain a maximum size of about 600 mm TL and are suprabenthic on sandy bottoms. The family occurs nonmarginally on the Pacific Plate only at the Hawaiian islands (Hawaiian exception); it is otherwise antitropically distributed. Gonorynchids have been reported most often from the Indo-west Pacific: Japan and Korea south to the Pescadores Islands, southern Australia (as far north as southern Queensland), New Zealand, Reunion, and southeastern Africa, but they also occur at St. Helena in the eastern Atlantic (Penrith, 1976), and Mead (1970) and Mccosker (1971) quote R.H. Rosenblatt as stating that the Scripps Institution of Oceanography marine vertebrate collection has a specimen from the Juan Fernandez and San Felix Ridge, off Chile. Some authors believe that there is only one species of gonorynchid, but the north-south disjunct distribution of the family suggests the possibility that two species or more are involved.
Grammatidae The monopoly of the Grammatidae is open to serious question. For instance, Nelson (1974) included the following in the Grammatidae: Pseudochromichthys, which is a synonym of the plesiopid genus Pleswps (Aoyagi, 1943; Schultz, 1943); Fraudella, which is a plesiopid (G.D. Johnson, pers. comm; incidentally, the Plesiopidae also appears to be polyphyletic); and Pseudocremlabrus, which is a cichlid (Trewavas, 1973). Even without these three genera there is little evidence to unite the remaining five genera, and perhaps 20 species that could be considered in the family (as most recently defined by Bohlke, 1960). The western Atlantic genera Gramma, Lipogramma) are coral-reef forms of shallow to moderate depths. Stigmatonotus is known only from coastal Western Australia. Grammatonotus is known from deep water off Hawaii (Hawaiian exception; only non-marginal Pacific Plate occurrence of Grammatidae), the western Indian Ocean (based on the type species of Parabarossia Kotthaus, 1976, which Kotthaus assigned to the Plesiopidae), Japan, Philippines, New Caledonia (G.D. Johnson, pers. comm), and the Kei Islands, Indonesia. The nominal species of Caltanthias all appear to belong in the Grammatidae, as considered here. They have been reported, variously, from southern Africa, southern Australia, New Zealand, Japan, the Mediterranean-eastern Atlantic, and the Nasca Ridge (G.D. Johnson, pers. comm) and San Felix and Juan Fernandez islands in the eastern Pacific, and are, thus, bitemperately distributed.
Gymnuridae
The butterfly rays probably consist of a single genus, Gymnura, and fewer than ten, viviparous,

