118 G. King — Materials for a Flora of the Malayan Peninsula. [No. 2, glabrous, the lower glaucous (except the midrib and nerves) especially when young; main nerves 7 to 9 pairs, ascending, rather straight: length 3.5 to 4.5 in., breadth P4 to 1.8 in.; petiole .45 to .6 in., rugulose, glaucous. Panicles axillary, few-flowered, shorter than the leaves, hoary, the flowers on short pedicels. Sepals slightly unequal, oblong, obtuse, tomentose on both surfaces. Ovary conical, tomentose; the style very short, glabrous; stigma small, 3-lobed. Fruit (immature) ovoid-globose, apiculate, minutely tomentose; accrescent sepals mem-branous, free from the fruit; obscurely 7-to 12-nerved, strongly reticulate, blunt, slightly narrowed to the concave base, at first puberulous but ultimately glabrous; the longer 2.25 in. long, and .6 to .75 in. broad, the others smaller. Penang: Curtis, No. 372. Malacca: Maingay (Kew Distrib.), 212. In this species the two inner fruiting wings of the calyx are nearly as large as the three outer; the leaves are very white underneath when young, but much less conspicuously so when adult. It is known, only by Curtis. and Maingay.s specimens, none of which have com-plete flowers. Maingay.s specimens from Malacca have in fact no flowers; but there is no mistaking their leaves as being exactly like those of Mr. Curtis. from Penang. The vernacular name of this is Dammar laut dhan lesor. 15. Shorea ciliata, King, n. sp. A medium-sized tree; young branches slender, dark-coloured, decicluously hoary-puberulous. Leaves coriaceous, lanceolate or oblong-lanceolate, acuminate, the base cuneate; both surfaces glabrous, minutely reticulate, the lower whitish when young, pale brown when dry; main nerves 8 or 9 pairs, ascending, curved, shining on the lower surface: length 3 to 35 in., breadth .8 to 1.5 in., petiole .75 to .9 in. Panicles 2 to 2.5 in. long, axillary and terminal, little-branched, few-flowered, hoary. Flowers -5 in. long, secund. Sepals ovoid-deltoid, obtuse, outside tomentose, inside gla-brous. Petals three times as long as the sepals, narrowly oblong, obtuse, slightly expanded at the base, adpressed-sericeous outside, glabrescent inside. Stamens 30, in fascicles of 3, unequal, the shorter with undi-lated filaments, the longer with filaments dilated in the lower half; all with the connective produced into an apical process crowned by 3 to 5 spreading cilise. Ovary ovoid-conic, sericeous, with a short glabrous style. Fruit (immature) ovoid, apiculate, pale-tomentose, .5 in. long; accrescent sepals membranous, reticulate: the three outer narrowly oblong, reticulate, 7-nerved: the two inner 2 in. long, and .3 in. broad, narrowed to above the concave base: the two inner 1 in. long, linear-lanceolate, few-nerved. Penang: Curtis, No. 1578. 
