chap, vii] THE DIPTEROCARPE.E ON MATTANG The Sapotaceae blossom principally in July. Amongst the numerous species of the family which I collected during this month, I one day at last secured a specimen of "niatto durian," a tree I had long sought for as being in Sarawak the most esteemed producer of gutta-percha. I had often met with felled trunks of this species on the slopes of Mattang, and in the forest between it and Kuching, cut down by the natives to extract the gutta ; but I had never before managed to find a specimen in blossom or with fruit, although my men had often pointed out young or sterile trees. On account of the great demand for its product, good yielding trees had become scarce around Kuching, and the native collectors had to search far and wide in the forest. The specimen whose flowers I had secured was apparently an undescribed species, to which, on account of the excellence of its product, I gave the name of Palaquium optimum (Fig. 20, 21). The Dipterocarpeae were in blossom during most of September, and in December their fruits were ripe. During those two months my principal occupation consisted in quartering the forest in search of them. Their presence was revealed by the quantity of flowers or fruit on the ground beneath the tree from which they had fallen. And huge giants, often, were the trees which I was obliged to fell or climb, in order to detach from the higher branches the necessary specimens for my herbarium. Great, indeed, was the labour such deforestation caused me ; and more than once to obtain the spoil from a single species of Dipterocarpus or of Shorea I had to work with three or four men for a whole day to fell the forest giant. I nevertheless managed to obtain not less than fifty species of Dipterocarps in the two above-mentioned months, within the radius of a mile from my hut. Amongst these fifty species were seven Dipterocarpus, thirteen Hopea, fifteen Shorea, four Balanocarpus, two Cotylelobium, two Dryobalanops, and two Vatica, most of which were at the time new to science, only a few having been previously met with on the islands of Bangka and Blitong, whose flora has strong affinities with that of Borneo. Some of these Dipterocarpeae have certainly a marked resemblance to species which grow in Sumatra and on the Malay Peninsula, but they are, at least at present, unknown from other localities, although most undoubtedly they must have a greater diffusion than the contour of Mount Mattang. It is, however, I think, well worthy of note that here the Dipterocarpeae are represented by several allied genera, including a considerable number of species, which, often presenting amongst themselves intermediate characters, may be supposed to be derived one from the other. This is, I opine, one of the essential features of a truly endemic flora, and very strongly contrasts with the character of an adventitious immigrant flora, in which the genera and species are an assem-9T 
