AUTOPSIES AT THE PHILIPPINE MEDICAL SCHOOL. 215
with scattered plates of calcification confined to the abdominal aorta. The other 4 showed numerous flat, yellowish, oval projections scattered over the surface of the aorta near its origin. ISTO change more marked than a partial loss of elasticity was encountered in the vessel walls, even in cases over 60 years of age. Arterio-sclerosis was found in but one of the 25 individuals infected with tuberculosis.
Aneurism was not encountered in any of the series, nor has a case been admitted in the hospital wards or been seen among the patients of the large free clinic at St. Paul's Hospital during the past eight months.
DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS.
Lesions of the kidneys occurred more frequently than one might expect from the generally good condition of the arterial tissue. Of 100 cases, nephritis was present in 48, acute in 23 and chronic in 25. Attention cysts occurred in 7, infarcts in 2, and tuberculous foci in 4 cases.
The kidneys usually appeared swollen and markedly congested in the instances of acute nephritis, the capsule stripping readily and leaving a dark, smoky surface. Histologically, the glomerular changes predominated, the capsules and tubules frequently containing red and a few white blood cells. The swelling and granular appearance of the tubular epithelium was in most instances less marked than the glomerular change.
The kidneys with chronic nephritic changes were of the large, pale type in 6, and the small granular in 19 cases. Two cases of the first group showed large, pale, swollen organs with numerous opaque areas scattered over the smooth surface beneath the capsule; the pale cortex forming a sharp contrast to the darkly injected pyramids. Histologically, the tubules, glomeruli, and interstitial tissue were all more or less involved in the inflammatory process. The four other cases of this group evidenced somewhat small, pale kidneys with thickened capsules and roughened surfaces. Glomerular degeneration and a rather marked grade of of interstitial change was present, hyaline changes being frequent.
Contracted, roughened kidneys with firmly adherent capsules were found in seven instances in the remaining nineteen cases of chronic nephritis. The capsules covered small cysts. This type of kidney could only be cut with increased resistance; it showed an attenuated cortex which contained a greatly  increased amount of interstitial tissue, with marked degenerative and atrophic changes in the glomeruli and plugging of distorted tubules with debris. The arterial change in these cases of chronic nephritis is less marked than the general change in the organs would lead one to expect, with the exception of those cases in which there was a general arterio-sclerosis.
Fatty degeneration of the kidney was found in 4 cases, 3 of which died of tuberculosis and 1 of amoebic dysentery.
The suprarenal bodies were tuberculous in two instances, both of which contained, in addition, marked pulmonary lesions.

