248 Flora Malesiana [ser. I, vol. 9^ Fig. 5. Ground-carpet of seedlings of Shorea multiflora (Burck) Sym., 9 months after flowering. Note the drip-tips. Brunei, Andalau For. Res., lowland dipterocarp forest, 100 m alt. (Photogr. Ashton, Aug. 1959). 

under controlled humidity conditions and found that species differ in their tolerance of dry conditions at germination: the coastal hill and ridge-top species Shorea curtisii is paradoxically highly sensitive to dry conditions at germination, though apparently more tolerant of water stress than related species at maturity. He estimated that 40"o of S. curtisii seedlings fail to survive the first month following germination, and another 10°o succumb in the following dry season c. 3 months later. Mortality in the life cycle is consequently greatest during fruit development and the 2-3 years following seedling establishment. General ecology. Following successful establishment carpets of seedlings of a single species are seen around the boles of the parent trees. Fig. 5, 81. At this stage competition is therefore mainly intraspecific, and it is interesting that, though this is the period of maximal mortality, morphological and anatomical differences between allied species are at their least. Knowledge of the ecology of dipterocarp seedlings is almost entirely empirical, derived from silvicultural experience. Sunderland (unpubl.) has demonstrated however that though seedlings of the slow-growing heavy hardwood Shorea maxwelliana and the fast growing light hardwood S. leprosula share compensation points, total daily net photosynthesis and rates of dark respiration are much higher in the latter. Though the former can survive under lower light intensities, neither can survive without the occurrence of sunflecks. If, as seems probable, dipterocarps form complex ectotrophic mycorrhizal associations (^Hong, 1979), then the clumped distribution imposed by their reproductive biology will facilitate and be enhanced by the events leading to the establishment of their rhizosphere associations. Many basidiomycetes are known to produce carpophores in response to drought; under lowland rain forest conditions carpophore formation appears to be, perhaps as a consequence, less frequent. In wetter areas it may be that reproduction is largely vegetative therefore, the mycelia persisting and
