GEOLOGIC RECONNAISSANCE OF MINDANAO AND SULU. 481
The region around Camp Keithley owing to its altitude is much cooler than the low country and the climate is correspondingly invigorating. However, at certain times of the year, particularly in Deeeraber and January these posts are said to be very disagreeable, as they are cold and raw like the New England coast of the United States in the spring time.
Typhoons are said not to occur in the latitude of Mindanao and the Sulu Islands. The evident reason for this is that the cyclonic storms, which have their origin in the Pacific are formed in a latitude much north of that of Mindanao and as they pass westward the are constantly curving to the north, partly owing to the original, clockwise movement of cyclones north of the equator and partly because of their apidroaeh to the continent of Asia. According to Father Algue, Director of the Philippine Weather Bureau, a few cyclones form in the Sulu Sea, but these attain no great importance either in frequency or in intensity.
Plate XXIX of Father Algae's "Cyclones of the Far Bast" -shows the mean trajectories of cyclones which pass over or near the Archipelago. It is very interesting in that it reveals how very generally Mindanao and the Sulu group escape these destructive storms. This fact is of the first importance in view of damage which such storms might inflict on crops, particularly on hemp which grows to heights varying from 10 to 18 feet, and because of the relative imnnmity from danger to vessels, such as interisland trading ships, Moro vines and pearling boats.
VI. NARRATIVE OF THE EXPEDITION.
Zamboanga, the first point visited by me, is situated about 3 miles from the nearest foothills at the edge of a flat plain of considerable area at the foot of the long, narrow peninsula of the same name. (See map, Plate I) To the east is a long stretch of salt-water marsh and in its rear is a scarcely less elevated tract which is taken up with paddy fields. If tlie Tumaga River lia kept its initial direction, it would cut through the heart of the city, as it is, it curves to the east and enters the sea opposite Sakol Island. The substructure of this plain is coral, the superstructure, silt and coarse detrital material from the hills to the north.
Zamboanga is essentially a "gate city" and a study of the map will show its central, commanding position with reference to steamship routes. In fact this is the main feature controlling its location. It is not situated on a large river by which communication can be maintained with the interior and for this reason its position is not favorable as is that of Manila, which is on a plain on the coast and at the same time on the banks of a large stream which taps a great stretch of the interior. Cotabato, on the Rio Grande de Mindanao, is also floral)y located and it will probably expand when the immense possibilities of the country to which it holds the key are understood.
Algal, Jose: The Cyclones of the Far East, Bureau of Public Printing, Manila, 1904.

