DIPTEROCARPACEAE 181 H. polyalthoides Symington. — small tree-5 m; bark fawn-brown, slightly creviced, smooth; inner bark pinkish, thin, flaking off on cutting in thin pieces with the outer bark breaking away.

H. resinosa Symington. — tree 8-20 m, with flattened arcuate stilt-roots -3 m high, copious, sometimes with tufts of small cylindric stilt-roots, but no stilt-roots in dry soil; no loop-roots; bark dark fuscous or blackish, entire, then somewhat fissured with narrow subtumid lenticels more or less in longitudinal rows; inner bark pale pinkish buff, stripping; wood yellowish.

Shorea acuminata Dyer. — tree -47 m, with buttresses -2 m high; bark dark fuscous to dull pinkish brown, inconspicuously roughened and scaly with irregular angular pieces, not or slightly fissured; inner bark deep purplish brown, thick; heart-wood dark pinkish brown; buds and large subpersistent stipules inhabited by ants.

S. bracteolata Dyer. — tree -30 m, buttressed -3m or scarcely at all; bark fuscous, irregularly and shallowly fissured-flaky, scarcely rugose, not pustulate, or with lenticels 1-2 mm wide; inner bark cream-white, laminated with concentric ochraceous sclerotic zones.

S. exelliptica Meijer. — tree -57m, trunk 75 cm thick at 2.5 m high, buttressed to 2.3 m; bark greyish rufous, becoming rather irregularly flaky and subrugose; inner bark pale pinkish, yellowish next the sap-wood; leaves brownish slivery shite beneath. This is S. ? elliptica Burck of Symington (see Ashton 1964).

S. foxworthii Symington. — tree -47 m, 65 cm thick at 5 m high, buttresses -4 m high, sharp and scarcely spreading; bark dull fawn brown, thinly flaky with oblong angular pieces (especially over the buttresses), sometimes more or less rugosefissured at first and scaling off when mature; inner bark pallid yellowish, fairly thick; sap-wood yellowish tan, narrow; heart-wood dull rich brown, hard; leaves silvery beneath. This was a common canopy-tree in the kapur-forest. It differed from the other species of balau, S. exelliptica, in the yellowish, not pink, inner bark.

S. lepidota (Korth.) Bl. — tree -40m, slightly buttressed; bark fuscous fawn, becoming rather coarsely rugose-fissured; inner bark dark reddish fuscous; heartwood pinkish brown; fallen leaves coppery beneath. S. leprosula Miq. — tree -50m, buttressed -3 m; bark light brown, rather distantly rugose-fissured; inner bark deep pink. S. ovalis (Korth.) Bl. — tree -47 m, with very thick buttresses -2.7 m high, or slight or none (? immature trees); bark greyish fuscous to chocolate brown, smooth, entire, with hoop-marks, then rather finely rugose-fissured; inner bark brown, deep pinkish brown to blood-red just below the surface, blaze with bacony streaks. One tree that I measured at mile 5^ on the Kota Tinggi-Mawai Road was 47 m high and the trunk above the buttresses was 165 cm thick; possibly this was the stoutest trunk that I saw in the Sedili region, but compare Mesua kochummeniatia. There was a general flowering of S. ovalis in May 1935. S. palembanica Miq. — tree -35 m, buttressed 1-2 m high; bark light fawn buff or greyish buff, becoming irregularly fissured flaky, not rugose, pustulate with small lenticels 1-^4 mm wide; inner bark pink to pinkish brown; heart-wood dark brown. For this species Symington gives the vernacular names sengkawang or tengkawang but, on the Sedili rivers, these names were used for S. singkawang or, possibly by confusion, for S. lepidota. 
