FORAMINIFERA OF NORTH PACIFIC OCEAN. 17
great ocean depths are very uniform, and it is in this portion of the ocean basins that universal distribution is to be looked for. Many species found at depths of 1,000 fathoms, for example, are probably to be found in similar depths in any of the great ocean basins. This is even more true of those species which are encountered at the 2,000fathom line. At depths of less than 500 fathoms species occur which in many cases seem to have a rather limited range. Many such species have been found — species, for example, which were recorded by Brady from material from a single Challenger station, and have been found again in the present study on the Albatross material from exactly the same regions and at approximately the same depths. Such species may be considered as marking definite fauna! limits where enough such species occur in any one region. On this basis the North Pacific Ocean may be divided up into several faunal regions, which, while they may have a considerable number of species in common, nevertheless have a distinctive character as a whole.
Among the most characteristic of these faunas may be mentioned the coral-reef fauna, as it may be conveniently called. This fauna, characterized by such genera as Orbitolites, Alveolina, Peneroplis, Amphistegina, Polytrema, etc, is found about the coral reefs of the Philippines, the Hawaiian Islands, Guam, and other of the tropical oceanic islands of this area. It is best developed about the first two groups of islands at comparatively shallow depths. In the north this fauna extends, with certain modifications, up to the southern portion of Japan, but so far as made out it is not developed at all on the eastern coast of the North Pacific. The same fauna is found in the Malay Archipelago, in various parts of the East Indies, off the northern coast of Australia, to some extent in various parts of the Mediterranean, and also a modification of it in the West Indies.
Off the coast of Central America and Mexico there is developed a peculiar fauna which is seen in a modified form in the deeper waters off the eastern coast of the Philippines. Certain of the species, or at least the genera, are also characteristic of certain parts of the extreme North Atlantic, where they have been described by Brady from the Porcupine and other dredgings. Some of the genera which are characteristic of this region are Crithionina, Bathysiphon, large species of Reophax, Verrucina, etc.
Off the coasts of Japan and of the Philippine Islands in green mud at depths of a few hundred fathoms there is another rather definite fauna, which is mainly characterized by many species of the Lagenidse, such as Sagrina bifrons H. B. Brady, and many of the species recorded by Brady from the Hyalonema ground south of Japan in about 300 fathoms. This fauna appears to run northward a considerable distance along or off the Japanese coast and to extend eastward to the
16777— Bull. 7110 2

