1893.] G. King — Materials for a Flora of the Malayan Peninsula. 107 4. Pentacme, A. DC. Glabrous or puberulous resinous trees. Leaves broad, entire, penni-nerved, with obtuse or cordate bases. Flowers large, panicled. Calyx-tube short, the lobes imbricate, 2 being quite external. Stamens 15, the filaments short, dilated ; anthers much larger than the filaments, elongate, linear ; the valves 4, sub-equal, each subulate at its apex, the connective also prolonged into a stiff deflexed arm as long as the appendages of the anther-valves. Ovary free ; the style filiform, the stigma slightly lobed. Fruit enclosed within the imbricate calyx-lobes, of which two or more have elongated membranous reticulate many-nerved wings. Species 3, — Burmese, Siamese, and Malayan. 1. Pentacme malatana, King, n. sp. A tree 40 to 50 feet high: young branches rather stout, dark-coloured, glabrous. Leaves sub-coriaceous, rotund-ovate to broadly elliptic, the apex shortly and blunt-ly acuminate, the base rounded or slightly emarginate ; both surfaces glabrous, pale when dry ; main nerves 15 to 18 pairs, spreading, pro-minent on both surfaces ; length 5 to 7 in., breadth 2.75 to 4.5 in., petiole .75 to 1.1 in. Panicles axillary, lax, few-flowered, 2.5 to 5 in. long. Flowers .75 in. long and about as much in diameter when open, pedicelled. Calyx-lobes more or less broadly ovate, acuminate, minutely tomentose outside. Petals three times as long as the calyx, elliptic, spreading, puberulous on one-half outside, and glabrous on the other, quite glabrous inside. Stamens 15, equal, erect, the filaments short and broad ; the anthers elongate, narrow, with 5 apical awns, one of which is deflexed and rather shorter and thicker than the other four. Ovary ovoid, sub-glabrous, much shorter than the filiform style: stigma minute. Ripe fruit ovate, apiculate, 1 in. long, glabrous ; calyx-wings all enlarg-ed and reticulate except at the base ; the three outer narrowly oblong, obtuse, and narrowed to the concave base, 9-nerved, 4 to 4.5 in. long, and .65 to .75 in. broad ; the two inner lobes much narrower and fewer-nerved, about 2-5 in. long, or even shorter. Langkani: Curtis, No. 2095. The petals of this species are spreading, and the flower has quite an unusual fades for the order. It is at once distinguished by its curiously 5-awned anthers. Four of these awns are the produced apices of the anther cells, the fifth (the thicker and deflected one) is a prolongation from the connective. 5. Shorea, Roxb. Glabrous, mealy, or pubescent resinous trees. Leaves entire or sub-repand, pinnate-veined ; stipules large, coriaceous and persistent, or minute and fugacious. Flowers in axillary or terminal, lax, cymose 
