8
Turnix whiteheadi evidently begins nesting in August for several live birds from the market during that month contained eggs. Two of these eggs we were able to preserve entire. As may be seen by the measurements they are rather short. The short diameter crosses the long diameter near its middle, and the outline slopes gently to the smaller end, producing a shape less pyriform than in the eggs of our x4merican partridges.
DESCRIPTIONS.
No. 1. August 26, 1902. — White with numerous obscure lilac-shell markings; around the larger end a band of dark sienna 020 inch wide, whose edges are ragged and near which are a very few brown spots. The dark zone incloses a white and unspotted area 035 inch in diameter. This egg measures 078 by 063.
No. 2. August 16, 1902. — Very similar to the other egg, but the dark band more broken on margins and entire larger end to middle covered with a dark-brown wash. The edge of this color area is well defined and slightly irregular, a few fine specks along its edge; smaller end of egg with a faint brown wash. This egg measures 079 by 065.
If egg No. 1 were half immersed in strong coffee it would be colored nearly like egg No. 2. As these eggs were taken from the oviduct — that is, before they were deposited normally — I am inclined to think that they may be somewhat abnormal, or not fully colored, and No. 1 especially tends to confirm this idea.
TURNIX WORCESTERI, new species.
Type. — No. 1350, adult female, Philippine Museum Collection. Purchased in Quinta Market, Manila, August 30, 1902. Probably from Paraiiaque, Luzon.
Description. — General color above, black; on the forehead, spotted with white; on crown and nape, feathers tipped with pale but! and some edged with white, producing an incomplete white line on middle of head (this line may be perfect in a well-made skin) ; feathers on back and rump barred and tipped with pale buff, on the interscapular area edged also with white; feathers on sides of face mostly white with black tips; lores white; feathers on sides of neck black, each with a wide subterminal bar of white; a small black spot behind ear; breast and throat rusty buff, extending up each side of the white chin area as rusty buff tips to the feathers and bounded above by the black-tipped white feathers of malar region; flanks, under tail coverts, and sides of abdomen and breast are also rusty buff, but paler; center of abdomen white; a few feathers on sides of abdomen are barred with blackish brown. Primaries, their coverts, and secondaries blackish gray; four outer primaries narrowly edged with whitish; secondaries barred with whitish on outer web. Scapulars like the back but with wide edges of whitish buff.

