2f)0 CALDERON.
usually employ another history with a blunt point, but we believe that this can be replaced by putting a small ball of wax on the point of the convex history ; and it is my opinion that in practice it is sufficient to cut the skin and the cellular tissue with a well-sharpened knife, reserving the history with the ball of wax for the section of the peritoneum and the womb. If a razor is used, the handle should be firm and strong"
Judging from these statements, it appears that the medico-social influence of the missionary friars in the Philippines has been exceedingly important, especially in the field of obstetrics, and if is believed that with their evangelic advice, these priests dissipated the innumerable pagan superstitions relating to parturition, but, on the other hand, they sanctioned the use of many remedies utterly in conflict with common sense, some of which are to-day used by the lower classes. All 'of this is yery excusable in these men, who were as full of the best desires and of love for their fellow-men as they were lacking in obstetrical knowledge. It is therefore not surprising that one still hears at the present time of some parturient to whom repulsive substances, such as dog urine, or mouse, horse or cow excrement have been administered.
Dr. Benito Valdez, of the faculty of the University of Santo Tomas, Manila, has recently told me of a parturient to whom a decoction of horse excrement was administered in order to facilitate labor, whereupon tetanus set in and the woman died. According to my informant, this case happened in Manila, approximately two years ago.
There are women who palliate the sufferings of childbirth by applying to the abdomen scapularies, images, medals, or to the feet, hands or other portions of the body relics of some famous saint venerated in the churches, or who drink, instead of urine or excrements, the miraculous water from Lourdes, accredited among pious people as an excellent medicine for facilitating parturition.
INFLUENCE OF THE CHINESE.
A very important factor which should be taken into consideration in this analytical study is the geographical proximity of the Celestial Empire to the Philippine Islands. Thousands of Chinese immigrants have invaded even the most remote parts of this Archipelago. One of the consequences of this immigration has been the introduction into this country of many superstitions originating in China which have become general among the Filipinos, and which have been strengthened by the arrival here of several Chinese physicians who practiced medicine among the natives according to Chinese usage. These so-called doctors acquired such influence that it is not an exaggeration to state that their queer therapeutic theories and practices are still followed by a portion of the population of the Philippine Islands.
While I was municipal physician in Carigara, Leyte, in the year

