182 VI. SPECIAL NOTES ON PLANTS S. parvifolia Dyer. — tree -35 m, with low buttresses; bark with elongate lenticelfissures, not flaky; inner bark pinkish brown, dull blood-red just below the dead outer bark, blaze with bacony streaks. S. pauciflora King. — tree -20 m, not buttressed (? immature); bark rufous greyish, flaky with thin rectangular pieces, somewhat fissured, not rugose; inner bark thick, soft, deep brown-pink, blood-red just below the dead outer bark. S. platycarpa Heim. — tree -35 m, buttressed; bark grey-brown, fissured; inner bark pinkish to purplish brown, reddish near the outside, blaze with bacony streaks. S. resina-nigra Foxw. — tree -55m, 35m, to the first branch, buttresses 3-4 m high; bark greyish fawn, rather flaky and fissured, not rugose; inner bark pallid yellowish; damar blackening on exposure — Plate 8. S. singkawang (Miq.) Burck. — tree -45 m, fluted at the base or with buttresses -2 m high; bark rufous grey to fuscous grey, rugose-fissured, not or slightly flaky; inner bark pinkish white or pallid buff-white. When growing by the Sedili Besar this tree recalled neram (Dipterocarpus oblongifolius) with flattened and twisted trunk leaning over the river and the branches laden with epiphytes. I think that it was confused by Malays with S. lepidota. S. sumatrana (V.S1.) Symington. — I used to recognise this tree from a characteristic small toadstool that grew on the fallen leaves. Vatica wallichii Dyer. — tree -23m, often short and crooked, without buttresses or stilt-roots; bark fuscous brown to pale grey, often white from a distance, smooth, with leaf-scars; inner bark yellowish, dark fuscous below the outer dead bark (flaking off on cutting), slightly resinous-aromatic (distinctly so in 28982); wood yellowish white; both flowering and fruiting specimens found in March 1932. Ebenaceae Diospyros L. — A dozen or more species of Diospyros occur in the swamp-forest, as trees up to 20 m, treelets and, almost, shrubs. The smaller are generally known as segun. The botanist recognises them from the dark grey or black bark which, in the blaze, gives a brittle and coal-like outer layer; the inner bark varies in colour and these differences seem to be important. Thus, I drew up the following key : — Inner bark pink to deep red; D. apiculata, D. argentea, D. maingayi, Diospyros sp. (6.8.39), D. sp. (1.7.39), (also D. dictyoneura and D. helferi, not in the Sedili region). Inner bark white to yellowish or pale ochre. Inner bark quickly turning deeper yellow on exposure; D. lanceifolia, D. siamang, Diospyros sp. (7.10.34). Inner bark not deepening on exposure; D. concertiflora, D. nutans, D. wallichii.

Buttresses are seldom and but slightly developed as in D. maingayi. Stilt-roots occur in D. lanceifolia and D. siamang which also has loop-roots as pneumatophores, but it does not appear to have been found in the Sedili region. D. apiculata Hiern: — SFN 29359; tree -10 m; trunk 5 cm thick, no stilt-roots; bark dull black, shortly and shallowly longitudinally creviced, subtuberculate, with faint leaf-scars; inner bark pinkish brown beneath the coal-black dead bark; wood pinkish white; corolla white. 
