1893.] G. King -Materials for a Flora of the Malayan Peninsula. 93 Vol. VI. p. 299. Hamilton distinguishes his species D. laevis by its flattened branchlets, and perfectly glabrous leaves and petioles, while D. tuberculatus Gaertn. hae terete branches and pubescent leaves and petioles. The former (called Dulia Garjan, by the natives of Chitta-gong) yields, he says, no wood-oil; while the latter (called Teia Garjan) does. The materials before me do not enable me to differen-tiate the two as species. Moreover, specimens sent to me by Dr. E. Thurston, Reporter on Economic Products to the Government of India, (and which had been collected by the Forest Officer of Chittagong under the vernacular names Dulia and Telia Garjan) appear exactly alike. Careful investigation in the field may however prove that there is some better basis for Hamilton's view that the trifling differences which he has noted in the outline of the branchlets and the pubescence of the leaves. I am not at all satisfied that the Southern Indian tree named D. indicus by Beddome is rightly reduced here. Better herba-rium specimens than any which I have seen, and investigation in the filed, are I think required to settle this point also. 5. Dipterocarpus kerrii, King, n. sp. A tall tree; all parts, except the petals, glabrous; young branches thin, slightly flattened at the tips, not annular. Buds narrow, cylindric. Leaves coriaceous, ovate-elliptic, acute or very shortly and bluntly acuminate, the edges undulate, the base cuneate; main nerves 8 to 11 pairs, oblique, traight, bold and shining on the lower surface; length 3 to 4 in., breadth 2 to 2.5 in., petiole .9 to 1.1 in. Panicles short, spreading, few-flowered. Flowers 1.5 in. long. Calyx-tube glaucous. Petals linear-oblong, obtuse, more or less pubescent or tomentose towards their middle externally. Fruit turbinate, smooth, 1 to 1.15 in. in diam.; accrescent calyx-lobes linear-oblong, blunt, reticulate, 3-nerved, 4.5 to 5 in. long, and 1.25 to 1.5 in. broad: minor lobes very short, broad, rounded. Malacca; Maingay (Kew Distrib.) No. 199, Griffith 727, Derry 1032. Pangkore; on Gunong Yunggal, Curtis No. 1561. Mr. Curtis describes this as a very large tree yielding an oil. It resembles D. Hasseltii, Bl., but has much smaller leaves. I have named this species in honour of Dr. Kerr, an enthusiastic Botanist much interested in the Malayan Flora. Closely allied to this, and perhaps identical with it, is the tree represented by Mr. Curtis' specimen (Waterfall, Penang) No. 1653. The young wood of the latter is however paler than that of D. Kerrii from Pangkore and Malacca, and the leaves are puberulous, not glabrous, beneath. I have seen no flowers of it. 6. Dipterocarpus cornutus, Dyer in Hook. fil. Fl. Br. Ind. I, 296. A tree 50 to 70 feet high: young branches stout, compressed, minutely 
