154 , NOTE ON SOME INDIAN DIPTEEOCAEPE-E. \ tangular and not circular, and I have hence placed it in my section Angulati though it is not a typical representative of it by any means. 12. D. Mrtus, Vesque, is anticipated by D. crtnitus, Dyer, Flor. Brit. Ind., i., 296. NOTE ON SOME INDIAN DIPTERO CARPED. Br W. T. Thiselton Dyek, M.A., B. Sc, F.L.S. I may take this opportunity of making some corrections in my enumeration of the Indian Dipterocarpece, in the second part of the Flora of British India. This was in type, and printed off many months before publication. In the interim Colonel Beddome published the concluding parts of his " Flora Sylvatica." In one of these he describes (p. %exxxvi.) Ralanocarpus, a new genus of Dipterocarpece from TinniveUy, with two species. One of these, B. utihh Beddome, I believe to be identical with Hopea longifolia, Dyer (Flor. Brit. Ind., i., 309), which I had founded on a plant of Col. Beddome's, referred by him to Hopea. Without fruit there is nothing which could possibly separate this plant from that genus. Indeed, Col. Beddome remarks (Flor. Sylv., p. ccxxxvii.) : " When in flower only it is scarcely distinguishable from the long-leaved variety of Shorea parviflora, which grows in the same localities." The fruit is, however, extremely different from Hopea, and I had described it from a very imperfect specimen which I had no means of correlating with the flowering ones as belonging to a new genus intermediate between Pachynocarpus and Vatiea, but to which I refrained from giving a name. (Flor. Brit. Ind., i., 317.) Colonel Beddome has also anticipated the publication of Hopea racophlaea, Dyer, which is identical with Hopea malabariea, BeoU (Ic PI. Ind. Or., t. 185.) A plant from Malacca in both the flowering and fruiting stage, collected by Maingay, has only lately come into my hands, ana proves to be identical with an indeterminate plant, from Penang. 9018 m the Wallichian Herbarium. As it is apparently undeserved 1 give a diagnosis. It is aberrant in the character of its trail, which recedes from Vatiea in the direction of Balanocarpus. B.c. However, the agreement ceases ; Balanocarpus agrees in everyt m everytb except truit a typical Vatica. . , Vatica (IsAims) Wallichi, Dyer. Arbor, ramulis strict* w angulum 30 divergentibus, teretibus, brunneis, verruculis alb* conspersis, glabernmis ; foliis ovatis, obtusiusculis, firmis, utrinqne gbber nmis, costa media nervisque lateralibus siccitate supra pronnnentib, ubtus palhdionbus ; paniculis cymoso-congestis ; florum part ^ (praesertim calyce staminibusque) omnino Vaticcs; fructu coriaceo baccate, comco siccitate rugoso, stylo apiculato, calycis lotas par* eime auctis paullo incrassatis capsule adpressis ovatis acutis. Fenang , Wall Cat., 9018. Malacca, Maingay, 201. K\L f x V ?}\ l0nga ' H"2i poll, lata ; petiole |-f V& ^ C^ycia fructiferi lobi aucti * poll-*# Lapsula 4 poll. long a . 
