A BIOLOGICAL AND SYSTEMATIC STUDY OF PHILIPPINE PLANT GALLS 1
By Leopoldo B. Uichanco (From the College of Agriculture, University of the Philippines, Los Banos)
FIFTEEN PLATES INTRODUCTION
Galls are abnormal growths on the stems, leaves, roots, or other parts of plants, caused by the action of insects, arachnids, or fungi, or by unknown agencies. Just how these peculiar structural developments are brought about is still open to discussion and speculation, experimental proofs being, up to the present, too deficient to warrant our drawing any definite conclusion. These malformations have been ascribed to various causes, the more commonly accepted, in the absence of more reasonable, explanations being the following: 2 1, a severe mechanical injury to certain parts of the plant ; 2, a continuous mechanical irritation; 3, secretion of chemical stimulus by the causal animal or fungus. One, or a combination of two or all, of these causes may give rise to the production of galls. In the formation of zobcecidia, the third factor — that is, the action of the virus secreted at the time of oviposition or during the development of the parasite — is probably the most important, the first two being of minor or absolutely no use whatever. This fact was shown by Molliard in connection with his experiments on Aulax papaveris Perris, a cynipid gall maker on the pistil of Papaver rhoeas Pall. 3 From time to time he removed a small quantity of the virus secreted by the developing Aulax larva, and injected the fluid into the growing pistils of Papaver. This artificial treatment resulted in the formation of galls which resembled in all respects those formed in the presence of the larva itself. He was thus enabled to draw the conclusion that the virus alone, without the influence of mechanical irritation from the presence of the animal within, is sufficient to produce the characteristic Papaver gall. The importance of chemical stimuli, as related to gall formation, was recognized as early as 1686 by Malpighi,
1 Thesis presented in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Master of Science, University of the Philippines, 1918.
1 Cook, M. T, Insect Galls of Indiana. Dept. Geol. and Nat. Resources, Indiana, 29th Ann. Rep. (1904) 801.
Compt. Rend. Acad. Sci. 165 (1917) 160.
527
