F I
MAY 3 1 1!

ZOOLOGICAL SERIESJJNIVERSITY OF ILL1NOI!
OF FIELD MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY
Volume XX CHICAGO, MAY 15, 1935 No.
8
A NEW CROCODILE FROM THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS
BY KARL P. SCHMIDT
ASSISTANT CURATOR OF AMPHIBIANS AND REPTILES
The salt-water crocodile, Crocodylus porosus, which is widespread in the East Indies, is the common crocodile of the Philippine Islands, ranging throughout the archipelago.
Very large specimens occur, and the largest skull on record, in the Museum of Comparative Zoology, was traced to its source in Luzon by Barbour (1924, p. 16).
Two large skulls in Field Museum, collected in Lake Naujan, Mindoro Island, in 1891, by D. C. Worcester and F. S. Bourns for the Menage Expedition, unquestionably represent the species porosus.
These attracted my interest and were cleaned and examined critically in drawing up the description of Crocodylus novae-guineae in 1928.
During a short stay in the Philippines en route home from the Crane Pacific Expedition of Field Museum, in 1929, I obtained a small crocodile of the species porosus at Zamboanga, Mindanao.
During this expedition, a series of skulls of both porosus and novae-guineae was obtained in New Guinea, and my interest in these species renewed.
On arriving in Manila, accompanied by Mr. Walter A. Weber, artist of the expedition, we were most cordially received by Mr. W. H. Brown, Director of the Bureau of Science, and Mr. H. R. Montalban, of the Division of Fisheries.
Through the interest of these gentlemen, three small crocodiles, presumably also from the vicinity of Lake Naujan, were obtained for us from the island of Mindoro and presented to Field Museum.
These specimens were unfortunately long delayed in transit, so that they reached Chicago as dried mummies.
Greatly to my surprise, these Mindoro specimens proved to be entirely distinct from the species already at hand from Lake Naujan, and to be equally different from Crocodylus palustris, recorded from Borneo and Palawan, as well as from C. siamensis of southeastern Asia.
Further examination of this material was postponed in the hope that additional specimens might be obtained.
In examining some uncleaned crocodile heads (without data) stored in Field
No.
337 67
