have been added to the U.S. Lacey Act (22) which means that corals exported illegally from their country of origin may not be imported into the U.S.A. The Philippines has a total ban on the export of all coral although, as in many countries, this has proved difficult to enforce (23,59). At present exploitation of corals for the ornamental trade and particularly for the building trade should be banned, especially in species which contribute to the structure of the reef, until techniques for managing this resource have been determined (25).
Further research on the effects of pollution on corals and coral reefs is also required. It has been suggested that clean-up operations after oil spills should be carried out using suitable mechanical rather than chemical methods (17). If slicks are sighted near coral reefs they should be treated while still in deep water or diverted away from shallow reef and lagoon areas (67).
Transplantation of stony coral colonies has been shown to be feasible (f27) and when techniques are perfected may assist in shortening the recovery time of coral reefs damaged by human activities, as well as preserving species endemic to certain localities Ct). The creation of artificial reefs using, for example, old motor vehicle tyres is a method that has been used in many areas to promote coral growth and to increase the habitat available to other reef organisms (52). 'Farming' of transplanted colonies has been postulated as a means of managing corals of value to man (25), but considerable research is required before economically viable methods are available. Further research is needed into fecundity, settlement and growth rates to determine recovery rates and sustainable yields.
REFERENCES 1.
2.
Brace, R, Pavey, J. and Quick, D. (1979). Intraspecific aggression in the colour morphs of the anemone Actinia equina ; the 'convention' governing dominance ranking. Animal Behaviour 27: 553-561.
The Natural Series
Marine Wildlife Conservation.
B'
NERC (1973).
Environment Research Council, Publications No5.
3. Bayer, F.M. and Weinheimer, A. 3. (197). Prostaglandins from Plexaura homomalla ; ecology, utilization and conservation of a major medical marine resource: a symposium. Studies in Tropical Oceanography 12. Univ. of Miami Press. Coral Gables, Florida.
It. Randall, R.H. and Birkeland, C.E. (1981). Preservation of rare coral species by transplantation and examination of their recruitment and growth. Project proposal.
5. Manuel, R.L. (1981). British Anthozoa  Synopses of the British Fauna (N.S) 18. Kermack, D.M. and Barnes, R.S.K. (Eds). The Linnaean Society of London and Estuarine and Brackish-water Sciences Association, Academic Press, London.
6. Pillai, C.S.G. (1973). Coral resources of India with special reference to Palk Bay and Gulf of Mannar. Proc. Symp. Living Resources of the Seas around India  ICAR. Special Pub, Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Cochin.
7. Hancock, D.A, Drinnan, R.E. and Harris, W.N. (1956). Notes on the biology of Sertularia argentea  J. Mar. Biol. Ass. U.K. 35: 307-325.
8. Loya, Y. (1976). Recolonization of Red Sea corals affected by natural catastrophes and man-made perturbations. Ecology 57: 278-289.
9. Shinn, E.A. (1976). Coral reef recovery in Florida and the Persian Gulf. En. Geol  1: 21-25f.
10. Shelton, GATB (1981). Electrical Conduction and
26

