126 G. King — Materials for a Flora of the Malayan Peninsula. [No. 2, restrict the name H. Dryobalanoides, Miq. There is in the Calcutta Herbarium an authentic specimen of the very gathering of the Soengie-pagoe plant on which Miquel worked, and I should refer it to H. micrantha Hook. fil. Petalandra micrantha, Harssk. has been reduced by the authors of the Genera Plantarum (Vol. I. p. 193) to Hopea. It is however a different plant from this, and belongs to Miquel's section Pu-hopea, which is characterised by the nerves being prominent. By Dr. Burck, Petalandra is reduced to Doona. 4. Hopea intermedia, King n. sp. A tree 60 to 80 feet high: young branches rather dark-coloured, minutely lenticellate, puberulous. Leaves coriaceous, ovate-lanceolate, caudate-acuminate, the base cuneate, both surfaces glabrous; main nerves numerous, faint; length 2.5 to 3 in., breadth 1 to T35 in.; petiole .35 to .6 in. slender, puberulous but finally glabrous. Panicles as in H. Mengarawan, the flowers pedicellate. Sepals sub-equal; the two outer ovate, acuminate; the three inner broader and more obtuse, all resinous outside, glabrous and smooth in-side. Petals twice as long as the sepals, narrowly oblong, obtuse, falcate, densely sericeous externally, glabrous within. Stamens 12; the fila-ments dilated, shorter than the anthers; the anthers short, crowned by a straight awn from the connective longer than the stamen. Ovary hour-glass shaped; style short, stigma small. Pipe fruit ovoid, apicu-late, .2 in. long, pale, striate; the two outer sepals accrescent, narrowly oblong-obtuse, narrowed to the base, reticulate, obscurely 5-to 7-nerved, 1.25 to 1.5 in. long and .25 in. broad; the inner three sepals not accres-cent, not longer than the fruit, and closely embracing it. Penang: Curtis, No. 425 and 1398. Perak: King's Collector, No. 3709. This species is no doubt near to H. micrantha, Hook, fil., but, accord-ing to Mr. Curtis, it is distinguishable from that, while growing, by its bark, this tree having a fissured bark like that of Shorea parvifolia, Dyer, while the bark of H. micrantha is smooth and grey. The petals of this are also more sericeous than those of H. micrantha, the filaments are shorter than the anthers (not longer, as in H. micrantha), the leaves are more glabrous, the petioles longer and more slender and more glabrous, and the fruit and accrescent sepals are smaller than in H. micrantha. I have therefore ventured, after much hesitation, to name this as a species, and from its relationship to H. micrantha and H. Menga-rawun, I have called it H. intermedia. Its vernacular name in Penang is Jankang. It has been suggested that this plant should be refer-red to H. Dryobalanoides, Miq. — a course which I would have adopted with great pleasure had it been clear what H. Dryobalanoides really is. 
