180 The Philippine Journal of Science 1915 base truncate, margin entire, 19 cm long, 11 to 12 cm wide, secondary nerves 18 pairs; tertiary nerves parallel and reticulate, with stellate hairs; petiole 5 cm long. Young shoots and seedling leaves ferruginous-hairy exceedingly like the same parts in D. vernicifluus. Fruit much the size and shape of that of D. marginatus, but more constricted at the top and with ridges produced into membranaceous wings, as in D. grandiflorus Blanco. Fruit 3 to 3.5 cm long and 2 to 2.5 cm in diameter, the two long wings 15 to 17 cm long and 25 to 28 mm wide. 

Luzon, Bataan Province, Mount Mariveles, For. Bur. 12S95 Curran & Merritt, August 1908 (type.) The type consists of three mature fruits, two young seedlings and one adult leaf, picked up under the parent tree. There has been but the one collection. As always, where the material is picked up under the tree, there is question of the accuracy of the diagnosis. However, the collectors were very careful and it has seemed desirable to give this collection a name. In 1911 * I published a note concerning this apparently distinct form. 

17. DIPTEROCARPUS ORBICULARIS sp. nov. Arbor magna. Foliis suborbicularis vel obovatis, 9 ad 22 cm longis, 6 ad 11 cm latis, acuminatis, basi cuneatis vel rotundatis; nervis secondares 9 ad 12; nervis tertiariis parallelis vel reticulars ; pagina superiore glabra, inf eriore pilosa. Fructus alatus, alae membranaceae. A large tree with brownish tomentum on twigs, petioles and underside of leaves. Leaves mostly suborbicular, some obovate, 9 to 12 cm long, 6 to 11 cm wide, with crenulate margins; apex shortly and very bluntly acuminate; base rounded or cuneate. Secondary nerves 9 to 12 pairs ; tertiary veins parallel and reticulate. Petioles 2.5 to 3.5 cm long. Twigs, buds, petioles, and margins of leaves densely clothed with long pilose hairs. Upper side of leaf glabrous, except for a few scattered hairs along the veins. Lower surface very thickly covered with large stellate hairs, many of which are set on the tertiary veins. The secondary veins and midvein are clothed, for the most part, with pilose hairs. The secondary veins unite near the margin with a fine intramarginal vein, which is very much the same size as the tertiary veins and united with them. Fruit (immature) with membranous wings as in D. grandiflorus Blanco. Luzon, Camarines Province, For. Bur. 21719 Penas, Soriano and Abellanosa, April 26, 1914 (type). This form differs from all other known species of the genus by the orbicular or nearly orbicular leaves. There are found in the collections also the following sheets, which were • Philip. Journ. Sci. 6 (1911) Bot. 253, t. 88.
