MAMMALS OP THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS. 51
in some institution of standing; it will surprise the average sportsman to find how gladly they are received and what scientific interest is attached to material he assumes to be worthless.
The making of study skins of small mammals is really a very simple process and one of considerable interest ; and the pleasures to be realized from trapping add greatly to a traveler's experiences. A small pamphlet issued by the United States National Museum gives instructions for preparing specimens of mammals in the most approved styles for scientific study. To the sportsman, the greatest interest naturally lies in the medium sized and larger mammals, the skins of which, when intended chiefly for study, are easily prepared. A primary incision should be made from the breast to the tip of the tail, and other incisions from the sole of each foot up the leg to the main longitudinal cut. In horned mammals, an additional cut from the base of the head to between the horns, branching in a Y to around each horn is necessary; the skull in these being removed through this opening. The skin is then removed entire, special care being taken to skin out the feet, tail, ears, and lips. The skin should then be well salted, the salt rubbed in on the most fleshy parts and around the edges. It is a good plan to separate the skin of the ear from the cartilage and force salt to the tip, salting the feet well also. The skin may then be rolled up for a few hours, as over night, and afterwards spread out in the shade to drain and dry. As the drying process advances, the skin may be folded, before too dry, into a convenient bundle for transportation. The skull, which should always accompany the skin, may be disjointed from the vertebrae, care being taken not to cut or otherwise injure its base. The flesh should be roughly cut off, the brain removed through the natural opening at back of skull with a folded and bent wire, and the skull dried in the sun or near a fire. The skin and skull of the same individual should always be tagged with the same number so that there wiu be no uncertainty as to what skull belongs with a particular skin when the specimens reach the museum.
Even when it is not possible to save the skin, or when it is desired for other purposes, the skull of a medium sized or large mammal should always be saved. Large series of skulls from all localities are greatly desired for study and comparison. Where the sportsman wishes to retain the horns they may be sawed oft, either alone or with a portion of the bone of the frontal region, and the specimen will still be of great service to the specialist, to whom the teeth and lower surface of the skin are more important than the horns. When this is done a pho-
