106 G. King -Materials for a Flora of the Malayan Peninsula. [No. 2, 8. Vatica Dyeri, King, n. sp. A tree 80 to 130 feet high: young branches, panicles, and calyx on both surfaces densely rufous-floc-culent-tomentose, with stellate hairs intermixed, the branches ulti-mately glabrous and their bark pale. Leaves menbranous, usually broadly elliptic, rarely elliptic-oblong, sub-acute or very shortly and bluntly acuminate, the base rounded, both surfaces quite glabrous, finely reticulate: main nerves 11 to 13 pairs, spreading, rather promi-nent beneath: length 3.5 to 7 in., breadth 1.6 to 3 in.; petiole .35 to .5 in., flocculent-tomentose. Panicles axillary or terminal, cymose, 1.5 to 3 in. long. Flowers .4 in long. Calyx lobes unequal, the two larger oblong and obtuse; the three smaller lanceolate, acuminate. Petals broadly elliptic, very obtuse, slightly narrowed to the truncate base, much larger that the calyx-lobes, glabrous, except one of the outside edges which is adpressed-pubescent. Stamens short, unequal-sided, bluntly apiculate. Ovary depressed-pubescent, the stigma capitate. Ripe fruit conical, the two large accrescent calyx0wings narrowly oblan-ceolate-oblong, blunt, 5-nerved, 1.25 in. long and .25 in. broad; the three smaller wings one-fourth of the size of the larger, lanceolate, obscurely 5-nerved. Synaptea Dyeri, Pierre Fl. Forest. Coch-Chine, t. 241. Perak: King's Collector, No. 7662. Distrib., Cambodia, Lower Cochin-China, Pierre. The Perak specimens are not in fruit: but in flowers and leaves they agree with Pierre's specimens from Cambodia and Cochin-China. 9. Vatica reticulata, King, n. sp. A tree 60 to 80 feet high: all parts except the inflorescence glabrous; young branches slender, dark-coloured. Leaves coriaceous, oblong to ovate-lanceolate, tapering from the middle to each end; the apex bluntly acuminate, the base very cuneate and slightly unequal-sided, the edges sub-undulate; both sur-faces finely reticulate when dry, the lower paler; main nerves 8 or 9 pairs, little more prominent that the secondary; length 2.5 to 3.5 in., breadth 1 to 1.25 in., petiole .4 in. Panicles axillary or terminal, puberulous, 2.5 to 3.5 in. long, lax, few-flowered. Flowers on long pedicels. Calyx-lobes unequal, lanceolate, more or less obtuse, densely pubescent on both surfaces. Ovary hemispherical, ridged, densely tomentose; style short, glabrous; stigma minute. Young fruit sub-globular; fruiting calyx with 2 accrescent linear-oblong wings, the other smaller; all attached to the lower part of the fruit. Perak: King's Collector, No. 6969. The only specimens which I have seen of this are without corolla, stamens, or ripe fruit. The species is, however, a very distinct one, and it is an unmistakeable Vatica. I have therefore ventured to name it in spite of the imperfection of the material. 
