POLYCHAETOUS ANNELIDS FROM PHILIPPINE SEAS. 597
The parapodial modifications begin on somite 15. In a modified parapodium the neuropodium has a dorsal, and the notopodium a ventral sagittal lobe, which overlap, the notopodial being anterior. Dorsal to the slender dorsal cirrus is a broad rounded lobe with ventral to it, a lanceolate one extending to nearly the end of the cirrus. The ventral cirrus is much like the dorsal in form, but relatively a little heavier. Ventrally it carries a plate shaped like that of the dorsal but larger. Dorsally, attached to its base, this cirrus carries a zigzag three-pronged outgrowth, while on. the ventral surface of the neuropodium is another outgrowth very similar to this but with four prongs. The setae are of the usual type with broad terminal joint toothed along one edge.
Most individuals show traces of brown spots on the dorsal surface. When best developed these appear in the anterior unmodified portion as prominent spots on the parapodia from the eighth to the fifteenth. In the modified portion there is a median dorsal and two lateral brown spots in each somite, with a double row of smaller brown spots on the dorsal surface of each parapodium. Ventrally these markings are most prominent in the modified region, where the median row breaks up into a double row of smaller spots and the parapodial row tend to coalesce into a single one.
In the collections were a number of females in the epitokous condition, but none which resembled the above-described males sufficiently to justify one in identifying them as of this species.
Collected from Subic Bay; Santa Cruz Harbor, Marinduque; San Miguel arbor, Ticao Island, a large number of individuals being from the latter locality ; Port Matalvi, Luzon, and Romblon.
7. Cat. No. 18939, U.S.N.M, from latter locality.
Family LEODICIDAE. Genus LEODICE Savigny.
LEODICE APHRODITOIS Pallas.
Eunice aphroditois PALLAS, 1766. EHLERS, 1864-1868, p. 306, pi. 15. figs. 23-29.
Collected at Batan Island.
Genus AGLAURIDES Ehlers.
AGLAURIDES FULGIDA Saviffny.
Aylaurides fulgida SAVIGNY, 1820, p. 54. GRUBE, 1878, p. 172.
Collected at station D5179.
Fragments of a Leodice were collected at station D5401, Tanguingui Island, north of Cebu, 30 fathoms, fine sand bottom.

