Hopea.] Dipterocarpaceae. 121 when young, soon turning glabrous; flowers small, fragrant, white, on very short pedicels, one-sided-racemose, forming axillary or al-most terminal greyish or whitish-tomentose panicles; calyx softly tomentose, the lobes blunt; petals 2-3 lin. long, oblong, falcate, puberulous; fruits small, the 2 wing-like calyx-lobes 1 1/2 in. long ob-long, blunt, somewhat narrowed at the puberulous base, 9-10-nerved, the 3 smaller ones only for the length of the glabrous pointed nut. Hab.—Common in the tropical forests all over Burma from Chittagong and Martaban down to Tenasserim.—Fl. March-Apr.; Fr. May-June.—s.—SS.= SiS. Metam. Remarks.—Wood brown, heavy, and close-graines. W==[]’==46, breaking weight==800 pd.. Especially in use for canoes and boats; prized for cart-wheels. Boats constructed of Thingan are said to last for more than twenty years.—Yields a yellow resin. 2. H. scaphula, Roxb. (Vatica scaphula, Dyer; H.f. Ind. Fl. i. 301).—A large tree; leaves elliptically oblong, on rather slender petioles, blunt, or almost bluntish, glabrous; flowers white, rather showy, racemose, forming puberulous, axillary, and terminal panicles; petals oblong, falcate, crenulate, about 3 lin. long; stamens 15, 5 of them free, the remaining 10 by pairs connate at base and alter-nating with the free ones; connective mucronate; style simple, shortly 3-lobed. Hab.—Chittagong.—Fl. Jan. Remarks.—The trunk used for making canoes. 3. H. gratissima, Wall. (Shorea gratissima, Dyer; H.f. Ind. Fl. i. 307).—A glabrous tree; leaves broadly lanceolate, slenderly petioled, acute at base, shortly and bluntish acuminate, coriaceous, glossy above, the 15-16 nerves almost parallel, the midrib sharply prominent beneath; flowers small, on very short pedicels, in one-sided racemes, forming axillary and terminal slightly puberulous panicles; calyx velvety, the lobes lanceolate, bluntish; petals 2 lin. long, velvety outside; the connective terminated by a very long flexuose bristle. Hab.—Tenasserim. 4. H. oblongifolia, Dyer, in H.f. Ind. Fl. i. 309.—A tree, all parts glabrous; leaves oblong, on an 1/2 in. long petiole, obtuse at the base, about 7 in. long, shortly acuminate, firm, glabrous and rather opaque, the lateral nerves (about 10 pairs) scarcely curved; flowers on very short pedicels, racemose, forming solitary or paired panicles in the axils of the leaves and shorter than them; calyx-lobes ovate, acute, glabrescent; petals pubescent; anthers orbi-cular, with an appendage 4 times their length. (After Hooker’s Fl. Ind.) Hab.—Southern Tenasserim. 
