266 EBENACEAE. (EBONY FAMILY.) gether in the axils and at the tips of the branches — Low pine barrens, Virginia (Pursh) and southward. — Shrub l°-4° high. 3. S. Americana, Lam. Leaves oblong, acute at both ends (1' -3' long), smooth, or barely pulverulent beneath; flowers axillary or in 3 -4-flowered racemes (J' long) ; corolla valvate in the bud. (S. glabrum and S. lseve, Ell.) — Margin of swamps, Virginia and southward. May. — Shrub 4° -8° high. . 2. HALESIA, Ellis. Snowdrop or Silver-bell-Tree. Calyx inversely conical, 4-toothed ; the tube 4-ribbed, coherent with the 2-4celled ovary. Petals 4, united at the base, or oftener to the middle, into an open bell-shaped corolla, convolute or imbricated in the bud. Stamens 8-16 : filaments united into a ring at the base, and usually a little coherent with the base of the corolla: anthers linear-oblong. Ovules 4 in each cell. Fruit large and dry, 2-4-winged, within bony and 1 -4-celled. Seeds single in each cell, cylindrical. — Shrubs or small trees, with large and veiny pointed deciduous leaves, and showy white flowers, drooping on slender pedicels, in clusters or short racemes, from axillary buds of the preceding year. Pubescence partly stellate. (Named for S. Hales, author of Vegetable Statics, &c.) 1. H. tetraptera, L. Leaves oblong-ovate; fruit 4-winged. — Banks of streams, upper part of Virginia, also on the Ohio River at Evansville (Sho7-t), and southward. Fruit 1 1/2 long. 3. SYMPLOCOS, Jacq. § HOPEA, L. Sweet-Leaf. Calyx 5-cleft, the tube coherent with the lower part of the 3-celled ovary. Petals 5, imbricated in the bud, lightly united at the base. Stamens very numerous, in 5 clusters, one cohering with the base of each petal : filaments slender : anthers very short. Fruit drupe-like or dry, mostly 1 -celled and 1 -seeded. — Shrubs or small trees ; the leaves commonly turning yellowish in drying, and furnishing a yellow dye. Flowers in axillary clusters or racemes, yellow. (Name (tu/xttAokos', connected, from the union of the stamens. Hopea was dedicated to Dr. Hope, of Edinburgh.) 1. S. tinctoria, L'Her. (Horse-Sugar, &c.) Leaves elongated-oblong, acute, obscurely toothed, thickish, almost persistent, minutely pubescent and pale beneath (3'-5 f long); flowers 6-14, in close and bracted clusters, odorous. — Rich ground, Virginia and southward. April. — Leaves sweet, greedily eaten by cattle. Order 66. EBENACEAE. (Ebony Family.; Trees or shrubs, with alternate entire leaves, and polygamous regular flowers which have a calyx free from the 3-1 2-celled ovary ; the stamens 2-4 times as many as the lobes of the corolla, often in pairs before them, their anthers turned inwards, and the fruit a several-celled berry. Ovules 1 or 2, suspended from the summit of each cell. Seeds anatropous, mostly single in each cell, large and flat, with a smooth coriaceous integument ; the embryo 
