rx, d, 4 Coivles: Palaemons of the Philippine Islands 363
as one-fifth or one-third of the dactyli may extend beyond.
The propodus of the fifth leg (No.
1) measures 05 millimeter in diameter at its middle and 875 millimeters in length.
Similar measurements for Nos.
24, 25, and 38 are 08 by 15, 03 by 75, and 06 by 13 millimeters, respectively.
Telson.
— Specimens in which the telson has not been worn show the internolateral spines extending about two-thirds of their length beyond the acute median spine.
The externolateral spines are short and of about the same length as the median spine.
In some specimens the tip of the telson is worn and the internolateral spines are considerably shortened.
Character of surface.
— The carapace and abdominal somites of all females and males (Nos.
1 to 13, inclusive) are smooth to the touch, and show no spines under a lens.
Male specimens larger than these have patches of spinules on the carapace, pleura of abdomen, tergum of sixth somite, upper surface of uropods, and the telson.
These spicules are especially numerous on the young mature males, and the surface is distinctly rough to the touch.
The surface of the first pair of legs is smooth, except in the old males where the ischium and part of the merus are covered with a few spinules.
The spines on the chelipeds make their appearance at an early age.
Specimen 1 shows a few rather indistinct rows of spines on the palm and distal half of the carpus.
The area of spines increases with the body length, so that in No.
4 it covers the proximal end of the finger, the palm, the carpus, and the distal half of the merus.
In No.
8 the condition is similar except that the ischium also is covered.
Young mature males, as an example, No.
20, show a few spines at the proximal end of the fingers and about 12 longitudinal rows of medium-sized spines, which are distributed on the inner, ventral, and dorsal surfaces of the palm.
The outer surface of the palm is covered with innumerable very small spines, which are not arranged regularly in rows.
A similar condition exists on the carpus, merus, and ischium.
The dorsal and ventral "linear spaces" are visible especially on the palm, carpus, and merus.
In middle-sized specimens the "linear spaces" are more conspicuous.
The third, fourth, and fifth legs are smooth in all but the largest males, where the propodus, carpus, and sometimes the merus are covered with very minute spinules.
Eggs.
— The eggs of this species when preserved are almost spherical, and average 05 by 046 millimeter.
Color of the living specimens.
— The general surface of the body owes its color mainly to the layer of pigment cells under the transparent chitinous covering.
The color is not always the
