1893,] G. King — Materials for a Flora of the Malayan Peninsula. 125 ovate-lanceolate or oblong-lanceolate, bluntly caudate-acuminate; the base slightly cuneate or sometimes broad, rounded and slightly unequal; both surfaces glabrous except the pubescent midrib: main nerves numerous, not much more prominent than the secondary, and both indistinct; length 2 to 4 in., breadth .8 to 1.75 in.; petiole .25 to .4 in. minutely tomentnse. Panicles axillary and terminal, numerous, short, spreading, 1 to 1.5 in. long, puberulous or glabrous. Flowers .15 to .25 in. long, shortly pedicellate. Sepals sub-equal, ovate-rotund, sub-acute or obtuse, puberulous and resinous outside, glabrous inside. Petals twice as long as the sepals, broadly oblong-obtuse, silky outside except on one side, glabrous inside. Stamens about 12, the filaments dilated in the lower half, longer than the ovate anthers; the connective produced into a single apical awn longer than the stamen. Ovary elongated, often constricted in the middle, glabrous; style very short, stigma minute. Ripe fruit ovoid, apiculate, -3 in. long, striate, closely embraced by the 3 inner sepals which about equal it in length; the outer two sepals accrescent, oblanceolate, obtuse, tapering to the con-cave base, reticulate, 7-nerved, P75 to 2 in. long, and .2 to .25 in. broad. A. DC. Prod. XVI. 2, p. 634. Dyer in Hook. fil. PI. Br. Ind. I, 310. Burck in Ann. Bot. Jard. Buitenzorg, VI, 238. Malacca; Maingay (Kew Distrib.) No. 210. Penang: Curtis, Nos. 167, 266, 1397. Perak: King's Collector, N.os. 3525, 8170. Distrib. Borneo: Bangka, Sumatra. Mr. Curtis notes on the Penang specimens of this, that the bark of the tree is smooth and of a grey colour, whereas the back of its close ally H. intermedia is fissured like that of Shorea parviflora. The species of Hopea with numerous indistinct nerves, (Sect. Dryobalanoides) are not easy to distinguish from each other in the Herbarium. H. Mengarawan, Miq., a species published two years earlier than this (i. e., in 1860), comes very near this, and the two may possibly prove to be identical, in which case Miquel.s name must be adopted. Hopea cemua, Teysm. and Binn. was described by its authors from a plant originally obtained from Sumatra, but cultivated in the Buitenzorg Garden. It differs from H. Mengarawan and from H. micrantha in having larger leaves with more prominent nerves . Its authors were doubtful as to its being really dis-tinct from H. Mengarawan, and I think these doubts were well founded. Under the species named H. Dryobalanoides by Miquel (1. c ) there are, Dr. Burck asserts, two plants. One of these collected at Soengie-pagoe in Sumatra, is, he says, simply H. Mengaraivan, Miq., and it is the fruit of this which Miquel describes under liis H. Dryobalanoides. The other specimen from Priaman in Sumatra is different, and it is to it that Dr. Burck (Ann. Bot. Jard. Buitenzorg VI., 241) desires to 
