136 G. King — Materials for a Flora of the Malayan Peninsula. [No. 2, sab-acute, or shortly and obtusely acuminate, the base cuneate; both surfaces glabrous, the lower pale and prominently reticulate when dry: main nerves 6 to 9 pairs, slightly prominent beneath, ascending; length 4.5 to 8 in., breadth 1.5 to 3 in., petiole; .4 to .6 in. Panicles crowded near the apices of the branches, many-flowered, 2 to 4 in. long. Calyx-lobes deltoid, minutely velvety outside. Petals linear-oblong, obtuse, puberulous externally. Stamens broadly ovoid, minutely but obtusely apiculate. Ovary puberulous: stigma sub-capitate, lobed. Ripe fruit ovoid-globose, about .75 in. in diam., closely embraced by the slightly shorter, much thickened, persistent, fibrous or woody, rugose, enlarged calyx-lobes. V. Wallicliii Dyer in Jouru. Bot. 1878 p. 154. Vatica ruminata, Burck in Ann. Jard. Bot hjuitenzorg, VI, 227 t, 29, fig. 4. Penang: Wallich, Cat. No. 9018; Curtis Nos. 1161, 1218, 1391. Malacca: Maingay No. 201. Trang, King.s Collector. Johore, Hullett and King. Perak: common at low elevations, King.s Collector, Scor-techini. Distrib., Bangka. In the young stages of the fruit of this species the calyx is quite small and embraces only the very base of it, much as in Isauxis; but as the fruit expands the calyx grows, so that when ripe the fruit is, with the exception of its apex, closely embraced by the much thickened, lignified, obscurely toothed calyx-tube. This offers, therefore, a transi-tion between Isauxis and Paehynocarpus. And, indeed, it is to the former section that Dyer refers it ( Journ. Bot., 1. a), and to which Burck refers his D. ruminata, a species which authentic specimens shew to be identical with this. Dr. Burck.s species, Vatica verrucosa (Ann. Jard. Bot. Buitenzorg) appears also to come very near to this. 2. Pachynocarpus Stapfianus, King, n. sp. A tree 80 to 100 feet high; young branches rather stout, scaly-pubescent at first, ulti-mately glabrous. Leaves coriaceous, broadly elliptic or obovate-elliptic, the apex broadly rounded, slightly narrowed to the rounded or sub-cuneate base: upper surface glabrous, shining, the lower paler, minutely and sparsely scurfy-puberulous on the midrib and nerves; main nerves 10 to 13 pairs, oblique, prominent on the lower, depressed on the upper, surface; length 5 to 8 in., breadth 2.75 to 4.5 in., petiole .65 to 1 in. Flowers unknown. Ripe fruit almost solitary, 2.5 to 3 in. long, on a woody raceme, globular, slightly apiculate, 1.25 in diam., closely invested by the gamosepalous, 5-toothed, thickened, woody, rugose, glaberulous calyx. Perak: King.s Collector, Nos. 5932 and 6132, This very distinct species was first recognised as a Pachynocarpus by Dr. O. Stapf, of the Kew Herbarium, after whom I have named it. Its flowers are as yet unknown; but it is readily identified by its leaves. 
