April 1, 1864.] THE TECHNOLOGIST. THE TIMBER TREES OP CEYLON. 405 Kleinhovia hospita, Linn. — A very handsome flowering tree growing in Colombo, but not indigenous to Ceylon. Some young trees about eight to ten inches in diameter cut down, produced a light-coloured wood apparently of no great value, but in Java the old wood is said to be highly prized for handles of kreeses, &c. Pterospernum Indicum, said to produce the ornamental wood known in commerce as " kyabooka." This wood is obtained from the knotty excrescences or burrs. It is sawn off in slabs two to four feet long and two to eight inches thick. It resembles the hue of the yew, and is very hard and full of curls, the colour being reddish brown varying to orange. It is very ornamental, and much esteemed in China, India, and England, where it is used for making small boxes, writing desks, and other fancy ornamental work. The wood is brought to Singapore by Eastern traders, and is sold by weight. I do not think that a tree having this botanic name exists. It is most likely the wood of the Pterocarpus Indicus, a handsome tree introduced from the Eastern Islands, which is deservedly becoming a popular road-side tree here. (See under LEGUMINOSAE.) DlPTEROCARPEAE. Dipterocarpus Zeylanicus, Th. " Hora-gaha," S. — This is a gigantic forest tree, producing one of the most common, and perhaps most despised woods in the island ; but if harder and more durable woods become too scarce for railway purposes, wood of this tree, and of others like it of great and large growth, may well take its place if it is found that kyanizing or creosotiug must be resorted to. Some trunks of this and following species measured three to four feet in diameter by fifty to sixty feet in length. Abundant up to an elevation of 3,000 feet. D. hispidus, Th. " Boo-hora-gas," S. Saffragam. D. glandulosus, Th. " Dorana gas," S. Putlam, Saffragam, and Ambegamoa districts. A balsamic oil called " Dorona-tel," is obtained from this tree. Wood likely to resemble that of the common " Hora " noticed above. Doona Zeylanica, Th. " Doon-gas," S. Abundant and most excellent timber tree. Several varieties or species as regards the colour or value of the timber are known in Hewahette. The wood ot the Doon is now much used for shingles for covering the roofs of buildings on new coffee estates. It is sawn into junks of the required length, and they easily split up by axes made for such purposes. D. trapezifolia, Th. " Tukahalu-gas," S. — Common forest tree in Central and Southern Provinces up to an elevation of 1,500 feet. D. congestiflora, Th. " Tinneya-gas," S. — "Western and Southern Provinces. D. cordifolia, Th. Caryolobis indica, Gartner fr. " Beraliya," S. — Pipe fruits roasted or fried are eaten by Singhalese. These three species like the above may produce resin, oil, or valuable timber. Shorea oblongifolia, Th. and S. stipularis, both in the south-west of the Island, are likely to produce good timber, as do their congeners in India. 
