68 FIELD MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY ZOOLOGY, VOL.
XX
Museum, I find one which exhibits the six postoccipital scutes of the Mindoro form, and on preparation of this skull it proves to agree so minutely with the three smaller skulls cleaned up from the dried specimens that there can be no doubt that it is also from the Philippines, received either with the Menage Expedition collections, or from Dr. J. B. Steere, who is also known to have collected on Mindoro.
The examination of the four specimens available convinces me that the species is certainly distinct and undescribed, and I feel that its publication will call attention to its existence and promote further collecting.
It may be named
Crocodylus mindorensis sp. nov.
Type from the island of Mindoro, Philippine Islands.
No.
11135 Field Museum of Natural History.
Received in 1929 from the Philippine Bureau of Science.
Mummified body and cleaned skull.
Diagnosis.
Allied more closely to Crocodylus novae-guineae than to any other species, agreeing with it in the characters which distinguish it from C. porosus; namely, presence of occipital scutes, more incised webs on hind feet, enlarged pectoral plates, scutes of dorsal shield in contact laterally, inferior opening of internal nares, and uninflated palatines.
Distinguished from novae-guineae by its proportionately broader and heavier skull, larger eustachian tube, palatines less parallel-sided, heavier pitting of skull and more pronounced antorbital ridges.
Description of type.
Dorsal shield consisting of 17 transverse rows of scutes, composed of 8 scutes each at mid-body, the bony scutes in contact; postoccipitals 6; nuchals 4-2-2; web" of hind toes strongly incised; a row of enlarged pectoral scutes, behind which there are 25 transverse rows of ventral plates to the anterior border of the anus; 18 segments of the tail with a double crest, followed by 18 single-crested segments.
Skull of intermediate type, neither extremely broad nor elongated.
Snout distinctly broader than in either porosus or novae-guineae.
Antorbital ridge high and abrupt laterally as compared with novae-guineae, failing to continue on the naso-maxillary suture as it does in porosus.
Pitting of the dorsal surface much deeper and coarser than in skulls of the same size of either novae-guineae or porosus.
Premaxillary teeth 5; festooning of maxillary teeth pronounced, more so than in the allied species; opening of internal nares downwardly directed; eustachian opening of skull larger than in novaeguineae, about as in porosus; form of cranial table intermediate between that of porosus and novae-guineae; posterior border of frontal
