DISTRIBUTION Mainly in tropical and subtropical waters in all major oceans, although a few species are found in shallow waters in temperate regions (7). The distributions of individual species are little known at present. Some appear to have wide distributions: Antipathes dichotoma occurs throughout the Indo-pacific in deep waters and in the Red Sea (7); A. japonica is common at about 10 m depth from Taiwan to central Japan; Cirrhipathes spiralis and C. anguina (whip corals) occur from 30-500 m throughout the Indo-west Pacific (1317 Others have localized and restricted distributions: A. aperta is found in all fiords of the west coast of southern New Zealand (30). A. panamensis is known from Panama, Colombia, Ecuador and the Galapagos Is; A. galapagensis is endemic to the Galapagos Is. (33).
POPULATION Unknown, and as for all colonial species is very difficult to estimate.
HABITAT AND ECOLOGY Found in deep water, usually between 30-110 m although some have been recorded from depths of 2000-3000 fathoms CFOOO-OOO m) (12); in the Caribbean the greatest density is between 40-200 m (8); in Hawaii adult colonies were found to tolerate depths of 1-146 m (9). Colonies are frequently associated with terraces and undercut notches, which suggests that abundance is related to habitat space (10). In New Zealand, A. aperta is found in shallow, cold waters, on the steep rock walls of fiords (30). Light and water turbulence play important roles in the distribution of A. grandis off the coast of Hawaii. Adult colonies can withstand light intensities of up to 60 per cent of the surface incident light, but it appears that larvae cannot settle and survive under a light intensity greater than 25 per cent of the surface light. This would account for the greatest densities being found below 35 m. Colonies were found at shallower depths only in turbid water or in shaded areas (9). Off Curasao, Black Corals are found as shallow as 10 m and in the shade of rocks occasionally shallower; the greatest density of colonies is found between 15 and 50 m (15). In the Galapagos, A. panamensis and A. galapagensis are found throughout the archipelago where there are steep vertical rocky walls (34). They occur at depths from 3-50 m; the unusually shallow depths at which they occur may be due to the cool waters surrounding the Galapagos. It appears that A. panamensis  like most black corals, settles preferentially in dark areas (caves, underhangs) from which the colony grows outward into the current. A. galapagensis appears to tolerate a wider range of substrates, often more exposed. A. panamensis is rarer compared with A. galapagensis (33). Black Corals may be scarce where sediment covers terraces (10). Only animal material has been observed to be ingested by A. grandis (9). The normal method of feeding is probably trapping of animal plankton by the nematocysts (21). Polyps are either male or female but colonies may be hermaphroditic (7). Reproductive maturity in A. dichotoma is probably reached between 10 and 125 years and the reproductive cycle may be annual (10). Asexual reproduction occurs naturally by fragmentation of branch ends. Colonies may have a life span of 70 years (10).
SCIENTIFIC INTEREST AND POTENTIAL VALUE Antipatharians are of interest for their unusual body structure compared with other anthozoans, and they are important in providing a habitat for many other small invertebrates of systematic value (13,16). In the Middle and Far East Black Coral has long been accredited with medicinal and magical properties (26). It was once abundant in the Persian Gulf from where it was exported to India (25). It has recently become a popular material for souvenir jewellery and is sold to tourists in many tropical countries, providing income to local people (3,4,6,10). Synthetic 'Black Coral' is often sold to unsuspecting tourists (28). An unknown but probably fairly large amount is involved in international trade. For example, in June 1982 the U.S.A. imported 24,000 pieces of Black Coral jewellery from Taiwan and 359 pieces from the Philippines (27). In 1981, prices for A. dichotoma on the international market were 20-50 U.S. kg (28).
48

