Plentiful around coral reefs, they are mostly-taken by emgllng. Some of the 5I1 attain a very large site. 5
There are a number of poisonous species in this family which are often eaten by mistake because of the large number of species irtiich resemble than.
1. Ohagurohata (Plate 14 Figure 40)
Scientific name  Cephalopholis argus Schneider
Local name  kaleaej (Marshallese) p6f9. (Saipan Okinawan)
Distribution  Red Sea, Indian Ocean, Philippines, Australia, South Seas, Hawaii
area Morphology  Body comparatively flat laterally. Coloration is characteristic, th dark blackish sides having scattered small bright indigo spots with black borders The posterior half of the body also has black stripes which, although indistinct in life, show clearly in preserved specimens.
To xicity  Experiments at Saipan with three fresh specimens produced no poisoning, the only effects noted being caused by the cooked flesh of fish which had been left for 16 hours and which had developed a stench of putrefaction. It was noted that in the latter case most of the experimental animals developed diarrhoea. At Jaluit two specimens were tested, one of which produced symptoms of poisoning.
On the whole, few experiments indicated strong toxicity and only one animal died. This species should be considered mildly poisonous.
This species is abundant in coral reef areas and is easily hooked. There have been many cases of poisoning in human beings, page 70]
Tables 62, 63, 64] Page 71] Tables 65, 66] Page 72]
Tables 67, 68, 69] page 73] Treble 70]
In rare oases, when large quantities have been eaten, the poisoning has been c severe that the victim could not stand up, but the majority of cases are of a mild degree. One person reported a case of poisoning as a result of eating the head, viscera, and flesh of a specimen of this species weighing 250 monme 9375 gr. Those who ate the flesh sliced raw were mildly poisonech IFKEIR hands and feet stung when placed in water. they also ate the stomach, which contained some crabs which they thought caused the poisoning. Numbness spread gradually, beginning in the extremities. After this experience one victim was cured of nervous trouble and rheumatism.
According to fishermen from Okinawa, this fish is also found there and has been responsible for cases of poisoning.
2. Akajin (Plate 15 Figure 41)
Scientific name  Plectropomus truncatus Fowler Local name  akajin, kurobanlakajln Salpan Okinawan)
42

