122 G. King — Materials for a Flora of the Malayan Peninsula. [No. 2, tion of the fruit from Dr. Burck (l. c.). Miquel, who first described the plant as a probable Vatica, had seen nothing but a leaf-twig. Specimens brought from Perak by the Calcutta collectors bear, instead of flowers, curious coues, 1.5 in. long, of distichous imbricate bracts, concerning which Griffith, in his field note on his specimen No. 5018, wrote, — "irregular growth caused by an insect; each of the scales of these cones bears on its dorsum at its base a number of eggs." Griffith.s No. 5019 appears to belong to a closely allied, but distinct, spe-cies; as also does the indeterminate plant issued by Wallich as No. 6635 of his catalogue, under the designation, "Dilleniacea [?] nervosa." 21. Shorea Thiseltoni, King, n. sp. A tree 60 to 80 feet high: young branches rather stout, the bark dark-coloured and lenticellate, but covered at first by a pale-grey, deciduous pellicle. Leaves coriace-ous, elliptic-oblong to elliptic, rarely oblong, sometimes slightly obovate, obtuse, slightly narrowed to the rounded base; both surfaces glabrous, the lower when very young sparsely lepidote, puberulous especially on the midrib and nerves, brown when dry: main nerves 8 or 9 pairs, ascending, slightly curved, bold and prominent on the under surface like the midrib; length 5 to 7 in., breadth 2.5 to 3.25 in.; petiole .6 to .8 in., stout. Panicles axillary and terminal, 2 to 3 in. long, velvety, few-flowered, apparently ebracteolate. Flotvers sessile, .6 or .7 in. long. Sepals ovate, sub-acute, unequal; the 3 outer tomentose outside, glabrous inside; the 2 inner smaller, nearly glabrous, the edges ciliate. Petals much longer than the sepals, linear-oblong, obtuse, expanded at the base, glabrous, except one-half of the outer surface which is adprcssed-pubescent. Stamens 15, in 3 rows, the filaments of all dilated, unequal: the anthers shortly ovate, those of the inner and longer row inappendiculate, those of the other two rows with a short apical appendage from the connective. Ovary narrowly conical, tomentose, tapering into the short glabrous style; stigma minute. Ripe fruit narrowly ovoid, apiculate, minutely pale-tomentose, substriate, 1.2 in. long, and .6 in. in diam., the pericarp thick and woody. Per-sistant sepals with much thickened concave woody bases, forming a cup embracing the lower half of the fruit, the apices of the outer three prolonged into membranous linear-oblong obtuse wings exceeding the fruit and sometimes L.5 in. long; one of the inner sepals shortly winged, the other often broad, obtuse and not winged. Perak: common. King's Collector. In this plant the fruit is much larger than in any of the other species of Shorea here described, and its pericarp is hard and thick. The bases of the sepals ars greatly thickened and concave, and they form a cup which embraces closely, but does not adhere to, the lower 
