148 GRAKLE.
triangular bare red space, taking rise from the nostrils, as a line ; throat, neck, and upper parts of the breast blackish, tinged with grey ; lower part of the latter, back, rump, scapulars, upper and under wing, and upper tail coverts and thighs, chestnut brown ; belly, sides, edge of the wing, under wing and tail coverts, whitish ; prime quills half white, half dusky, secondaries brown ; tail deeper brown, the side feathers tipped with white ; legs yellow The female like the male in plumage.
Inhabits the Philippine Islands, and Bombay ; also Ceylon ; is a various feeder, and very gluttonous in its appetite ; is useful in its wild state, in freeing the backs of oxen from vermin, and has been known, when kept in confinement, to swallow a young rat, more than two inches long, whole, after bruising it against the wires of its cage ; is also very fond of locusts and grasshoppers. They build twice in a year, chiefly in the forks of palm trees, though not unfrequently in outhouses, making a coarse sort of nest, and generally lay four blue eggs. The young birds are easily tamed, and soon learn to speak, imitating the cries of the common domestic poultry, c.
This was ranked formerly by Linnaeus with his Paradise Bird, on account of the velvet-like feathers about the bill; but why he should have named it tristis is not so clear, as, according to Dr. Buchanan, it is the most cheerful bird in India  it has a great variety of musical powers, is often very noisy, but sometimes, especially at dawn, has a pleasant chirping song. When these birds meet with a snake, they assemble round it, and scream violently, and by this means discover it to others; when tame, it will imitate the human voice; eats grain, milk, and insects ; builds in trees, lays the eggs in June, in the hollows, on a little straw ; a nest of one met with, of twenty inches in diameter, was made of cents ; in it were two greenish blue eggs, one end much narrower than the other. Dr. B. says it abounds in
I observe a drawing of one from India, with the bill, caruncle, and legs orange. This is called Gursall Mainah. Another of these, not widely differing, was named Saulak.

