NEW SPECIES OF BIRDS.
15
spots on outer web, or with no spots at all.
Tips of inner primaries and inner webs of all primaries spotted with creamy white Second-aries similarly spotted on both webs.
Ear-coverts rusty brown.
A creamy white malar stripe extending back of ear-covers.
Chin and narrow stripe down center of throat white, bordered by a broad stripe of brownish black on each side, the tips of feathers forming side stripes being brownish white.
Under surface with strong ful-vescent wash.
Feathers of upper breast with distinct brownish black shaft marks.
Feathers of lower breast and abdomen with ill defined streaks of the same color.
Feathers of flanks nearly white, with only slight dark markings.
Under tail-coverts yellowish white, with dark shaft stripes.
Under surface of tail slightly lighter than upper, but tips of two central pairs of feathers nearly black.
Under wing-coverts and axillaries creamy white, spotted with brownish black.
Bend of wing uniform brownish black.
The female lacks the scarlet head markings of the male and the creamy white spot, which is partially concealed in the male, is in the female quite conspicuous.
Otherwise the sexes are alike.
Five males measure in length, 584 inches.
Culmen, 80.
Wing, 807 Tail, 159.
Tarsus, 59.
Eight females: Length, 597.
Culmen, 79 Wing, 319.
Tail, 163.
Tarsus, 66.
Habitat: Sibuy an.
11.
Chibia menagei sp. nov.
Adult male in worn out plumage.
Black.
Wings with metallic green gloss.
Feathers of head, nape, neck and breast with spangles of metallic blue, broad on crown, elsewhere narrow.
Scapulars, interscapulars, back and rump blue-black, with faint metallic gloss.
Upper tail coverts more strongly glossed, especially on outer web.
Central tail feathers and outer webs of others glossed like the wings.
Tail graduated, the outer pair of feathers exceeding the next inner pair by one and one fourth inches and strongly curved upward and inward, so that at tip the inner web of feather is turned outward.
Neck-hackles considerably elongated.
Female like male.
None of the specimens show frontal plumes.
Average measurements of nine males: Length, 13.
25 inches.
Culmen, 137.
Wing, 539.
Tail, 691.
Tarsus, 1.
Of seven females: Length, 1287.
Culmen, 137.
Wing, 536.
Tail, 669.
Tarsus, 101.
This curious species is by far the largest representative of its genus yet discovered in the Philippine Islands, and differs strikingly from both the other known species, one of which is confined to Palawan and the Calamianes Islands, while the other occurs in the Sulu group and in Cagayan Sulu.
