surface of the gill skeleton in primitive Wrasses.
The varied colors of the Wrasses and Parrot Fishes are due to the high development of their chromatophores or pigment-bearing organs.
Sculpins, Gurnards, Scorpion Fishes, etc. (Suborder Scorpaenoidei): This group is generally known as the cheek-armored fishes because of the fact that one of the bones surrounding the eye is much enlarged and arches backward over the cheek so as to gain a broad contact with the forepart of the bony gill cover. Thus it forms the so-called "bony stay" that strengthens the skull in this group.
The Gurnards, or Sea Robins, with their broad heads enclosed in this bony shield, bear little resemblance to the Basses, yet they are connected with the primitive Sea Bass stock through the Sculpins and Rosefishes.
Most of the fishes of this group are marine forms, living either among the rocks or on or near the bottom, sometimes at considerable depths. The most primitive forms are the Rosefishes; the most advanced are the Gurnards. The first three rays of the Gurnards' breast fins are specialized as "legs" These rays are separated from the rest of the fin and from each other, and due to this specialization the movements of the fish among seaweed or along any surface much resembles walking on these fins.
In the Lumpfishes and the Sea Snails, the ventral fins are united and form a sucking disk by means of which these clumsy, slow-moving fishes cling to rocks.
The Platycephalids are a group of fishes from the East Indies and Japan. As their name implies, they have flattened heads, which present a curious resemblance to the heads of bottom-living forms of widely
different groups, such as the extinct Ostracoderms (see Fossil Fishes, page 82) and the Armored Catfishes (page 38).
The Gobies (Suborder Gobioidei): The Gobies have pushed their way into all the seas outside the Arctic and Antarctic circles, and have representatives in the fresh waters of all parts of the world. The central form, Gobius, is not very different from the Johnny Darters of the Perch-bass group, except that the ventral fins tend to form a sucking disc by means of which the fish can cling to rocks. In the Mudskipper, Periophthalmus, the pectoral fins are modified and strengthened so that they can be used as flippers, and the fish skips about on these over the mud flats of eastern tropical rivers. Its eyes are greatly enlarged and protruding.
In the Blind Goby of California, on the other hand, the eyes are reduced to mere vestiges, and the fish lives like a slug under rocks.
In size, the Gobies vary from the minute Pandaka pygmaea of the Philippines, which measures only 10 millimeters (less than  inch) in length, to Eleotris marmorata of Siam, which grows to nearly 3 feet. The Gobies differ from the cheek-armored group in lacking the bony stay of the cheek.
Blennies (Suborder Blennioidei)  The Blennies are active little fishes living around rocky or coral reef shores. Certain Blennies, for instance the Lizard Skipper of Samoa, even leap from rock to rock at low water, in this respect paralleling the unrelated Mudskipper. Most of the Blennies are small, but there is one very large marine member of the family. This is the Sea Wolf, Anarrhichas lupus. This vicious fish has a long body and strong, tusklike front teeth, and is very hard to handle if caught. It also has large, rounded, crushing teeth on the roof
56

