482 SMITH.
The initial reconnaissance which I undertook was to Boston, some 10 or 12 kilometers northeast of Zamboanga. Here the transportation by wagon Avas left and a trail taken which led up an abrupt hill a little beyond which point we entered the forest. Between Boston and this hill I found some float limestone with fragments of Orhitoides, which probably are identical with the material Eichthofen  encountered so many years before. This is practically all he contributed to the geology of this region, but this is not surprising when the attitude of the natives at that time is considered.
We continued in the forest for about three days, obtaining absolutely no view of the country farther than 50 yards from the trail, until we reached a log cabin about 30 miles north of Zamboanga on the Tumaga Elver"
The country rock in this region is a much decomposed schist, with a considerable thickness of stiff, yellow, clay overburden. (Plate III) Quartz pebbles and bowlders are plentiful in the clay; the pebbles come from quartz stringers in the schist. The large bowlders clearly indicate large veins, but we were not so fortunate as to encounter any of the latter. The clay contains a small amount of gold which the prospectors had recovered by sluicing. Pew people were encountered in this forest.
On our return aftejthree days' stay we followed the river for perhaps 25 kilometers. At times we came upon box cations (some of which we might have swum through), but usually we took the high trail which went along the steep side of the cliff, at times 30 meters above the water and rocks. The way was extremely difficult; the sharp river rocks, the sharp-edged schists and the leeches began to tell on our carriers, so that we finally took a trail which led out of the river and after a climb up the side of the gorge we regained the old path which we followed to a hemp plantation at the edge of the timber and by mid-day arrived in Zamboanga.
VICINITY OF SAN RAMON.
My next reconnaissance was in the vicinity of the San Ramon Farm, controlled by the Moro Province. This excursion was for the purpose of an examination of the mountains which rise abruptly back of the narrow coastal plain. The formation in this place is entirely volcanic, the rich, disintegrated debris spreading out upon the coastal plain and producing a very fertile soil. Some of the rock is highly pyritized and may carry more or less gold.
In the streams I saw bowlders of andesite which sometimes contained large fragments of schist, torn off and caught up in the molten rock as it
" Richthofen, F. von: Vorkommen der Nummulitenformation in den Philippinen, Ztschr. d. deutsch. geol. Ges. (1862), 14, 357.
"A sketch map of the trail was made, but it shows little beyond the path.

