INTRODUCTION
4
THE FIRST EDITION OF BLANCOS FLORA DE FILIPINAS
The first edition of Blanco's Flora de Filipinas  was printed in Manila in 1837. It is an octavo volume consisting of a prologue, a general introduction, and the systematic arrangement and description of about 903 species under binomial names. The work is written wholly in Spanish. The prologue briefly relates the circumstances under which the work was prepared and contains a review of the botanical work accomplished by Blanco's predecessors in the Philippines; namely, Fathers Clain, Delgado, Mercado, and Santa Maria, but with no mention of the vastly more important work of Camel; and a brief mention of the work of Nee and Pineda, of the Malaspina Expedition, but no mention of the more important explorations of Haenke, of the same expedition. The general introduction, occupying pages IX-LXXVIII, consists of an explanation of the terms used in descriptive botany and an explanation of the Linnean system of classification, with a list of the admitted genera arranged
under their Linnean classes.
The generic descriptions are greatly: abbreviated, but the specific descriptions are usually long and detailed, although often general in nature; some of them are very short and imperfect-To these are often added long or short discussions, giving data of economic importance, occurrence, time of flowering, native names, etc. ; this supplementary data is often of more value in locating and interpreting Blanco's species than are the descriptions themselves. The work is supplied with an alphabetic index to generic names; one to native names, in which not all of the native names mentioned in the text are included; and a tabulation of the various genera according to the economic uses of the various species.
In the text various species that Blanco was unable to refer to their proper generic positions are described under their native names. These are usually placed under the Linnean classes to which they pertain and cannot in any sense of the word be
Flora de Filipinas. Segu
Por el P. Fr.
1-7.
7

