208 GARRISON.
In this connection; one practical suggestion would seem to offer itself. The source of all infections with intestinal worms, followed back to its origin, is necessarily the fasces of persons already infected. 10 With this fact in mind, we have carefully inquired into the different methods of the disposal of excreta customary among the Filipino people and it would appear that it would scarcely be possible to establish more ideal conditions for the spreading of intestinal parasites throughout the Islands. The native, if living near a stream, defecates along its banks, either in, or at varying distances from the water; in the rainy season, the streams overflow their banks and naturally scatter any infection they carry over the adjacent country. Another manner of disposing of the fasces, equally or perhaps more prevalent, is simply through a hole in the floor of the bamboo house, the excreta falling to the ground to be partly devoured and partly scattered about by the universally present hogs and chickens.
Such conditions go together with the extremely high prevalence of intestinal worms among the people, and we can scarcely escape the conclusion that the one sanitary measure prominently demanded for the prevention of infection with intestinal worms in the Philippines is a proper disposal of human excreta. In fact it would appear scarcely too strong a statement to say that the spread of infections with intestinal worms could be in time satisfactorily controlled by the proper establishment of this measure alone. The urgency of the demand for a proper disposal of human excreta is further emphasized by the effect which it might reasonably be expected to bear directly upon the prevalence of other diseases, in that it would lessen the distribution of pathogenic organisms other than animal parasites which escape in the fasces.
To devise a working system, practical, economical, and adapted to Philippine conditions, is a special problem which requires special and, perhaps, experimental study. That a radical sanitary measure can be effectively and promptly enforced in the Philippines has been strikingly exemplified by the campaign of vaccination against smallpox so successfully carried out by the Bureau of Health.
In conclusion, we believe that the most valuable practical lesson to be drawn from the results of the examination of the Bilibid prisoners is the imperative need of establishing throughout the Philippines a system for the proper disposal of human excreta. Moreover, it does not seem unreasonable to expect, in the light of the striking results apparently accomplished at Bilibid by treating infections with intestinal worms, that with the reduction in the present exceedingly high prevalence of
10 Those cases in which the parasite may infect other animals as well as man would, of course, constitute rare exceptions to this statement; for example, Bymenolepsis in rats, Tccnia solium in hogs.

