34
MOLLUSCA.
BX
EDGE, A. SMITH.
With the exception of Mr. John Brazier's report on the Mollusca of the  Chevert  expedition  there does not appear to have been published any -work of importance treating exclusively on the forms of North and North-eastern Australia. Dr. Tapparone-canefri has written a few papers on the fauna of Papua, and a large number of species have, at various times, been described in different works and periodicals by Reeve, A. Adams, Watson, and others, from Port Essington, Torres Straits, and the coast of Queensland.
Many of the species found in this district range as far as or even further north than, the Philippine Islands, and westward to Swan River, and, even in a few cases, to Ceylon and the Mauritius ; but the general character of the fauna may be regarded as Malayan, although many of the species appear to be limited in their distribution and not as yet met with in the Archipelago.
I. CEPHALOPODA.
1. Octopus polyzenia. (Plate TV. figs. A-A 3) Ch-ay, Cat. Cephal. Anteped. Brit. Mus. p. 13.
Animal small (perhaps young), minutely and closely granulated upon the back pf the body, head, arms, and connecting web ; the lower surface of the body, head, funnel, and web above it being more sparsely granulated. Body (in spirit) wider than long, rounded at the end, exhibiting a faint central ventral groove from the opening at the neck to the extremity. Head broad but narrower than the body, with a single papilla near the upper hinder edge of the ocular opening. Arms not very long ; three upper pairs subequal in length, ventral pair rather longer. Lower surface and membrane between them very. minutely granulous. Membrane between the arms extending about one third their length and also in a narrow strip up the side of them, but between the dorsal pair it is almost entirely wanting. Cups on the upper arms gradually decreasing in size from near the mouth to the extremity, on the three other pairs of arms enlarging gradually as far as the sixth pair (these being nearly twice as large as any on the dorsal pair), and then gradually
Pro. Linn. Soo. New South Wales, vols. ii. and iii.

