Notes, Information & News
Page 405
Figure 1  Specimen of Titiscania limacina from Puerto Ayora, Santa Cruz, Galapagos Islands (17 mm in length).
east Australia (Burn. 1975); and in the Molucas (Strack, 1998). Taki (1955) described the second species of this genus in Japan, Titiscania shinkishihataii, which was rediscovered and redescribed by Saito & Tsuchiya (1990). The differences between both species might not be considered specific characters because some minor differences have also been found in specimens from distant geographic areas, perhaps as a result of their different stage of conservation or as a consequence of the methods used to study the slugs. Therefore, both taxa might be synonyms. Nevertheless, according to Scott & Kenny (1998), the Titiscanidae remains a poorly known group with few specimens available for study.
Titiscania limacina, despite being a shallow-water gastropod recorded from the west American continental coast and from some eastern Pacific islands, is not known from any of the eastern Pacific oceanic islands, as pointed out by Emerson (1991) in his study on the tropical trans-Pacific prosobranch gastropods. The malacofauna of the Galapagos Islands is, without doubt, the best studied of all eastern Pacific islands (see the reviews of Finet, 1991,
1994). However, Titiscania limacina has never been recorded there until now.
During a Spanish scientific trip to the Galapagos Islands in 1991, organized by the Museo de Ciencias Naturales de Tenerife, Canary Islands, three specimens of this species were found. These specimens were collected off Puerto Ayora, Santa Cruz Island, in front of the Charles Darwin Research Station (6 March 1991). The three specimens were found beneath intertidal rocks, covered by white compound ascidians of the family Didemnidae. They measured alive 11, 14, and 17 mm when crawling. At resting position they were notably shorter. The external appearance of our specimens (Figure 1 ) does not differ from other descriptions of the species. These elongate sluglike animals were white in color with a row of 1012 opaque white papillae along each side of the notum. A white defensive secretion was expelled from these papillae when the animals were disturbed. Some isolated papillae were also present on the notum. The cephalic tentacles were long, thin, and sharply tapering. They became abruptly narrower just at their bases. Small eyes were located at the outer bases. The ctenidium projected partially from the opening of the mantle cavity near the head and somewhat toward the right side. The foot was translucent and wide, extending well beyond the notum, with its anterior end expanded into a pedal veil. The three specimens are deposited at the Museo de Ciencias Naturales de Tenerife, Canary Islands.
Acknowledgments. We are indebted to Juan J. Bacallado, head of the project "Galapagos: Patrimonio de la Humanidad" for inviting us to participate in the scientific trips to the Galapagos Islands. Ignacio Diez Cortaberna made the definitive drawing based on the original sketches of the authors.
Literature Cited
Bergh, R. 1875. Malacologische Untersuchungen. Pp. 315-376, pis. 40-48 in C. Semper, Reisen im Archipel der Philippinen. Zweiter Theil. Wissenschaftliche Resultate nos. 8 & 9.
Bergh, R. 1890. Die Titiscanien, eine Familie der rhipidoglossen Gastropods. Morphologisches Jahrbuch 16l)l-26, pis. 1-3.
Burn, R. 1975. Titiscania limacina Bergh, 1875, an unusual gastropod new to Australia. Australian Shell News. 111.
Emerson, W. K. 1991. First records for Cymatiwn muudiim (Gould) in the Eastern Pacific Ocean, with comments on the Zoogeography of the Tropical Trans-pacific Tonnancean and non-tonnacean prosobranch gastropods with Indo-pacific faunal affinities in West American Waters. The Nautilus 1052)62-80.
Finet, Y. 1991. The marine mollusks of the Galapagos Islands. Pp. 253-280 in M. James (ed), Galapagos Marine Invertebrates. Plenum Press: New York.
Finet, Y. 1994. The Marine Mollusks of the Galapagos Islands: A Documented Faunal List. Museum dhistoire Naturelle: Geneve. 180 pp.
GOSLINER, T. M, D. W. Behrens & G. C. Williams, 1996. Coral Reef Animals of the Indo-pacific. Sea Challenger: Monterey. California, 314 pp.
Houston, R. S. 1990. Reproductive systems of neritimorph ar-
