T. squamosa has an elongate shell with about five strong, low, rounded radial ridges, each carrying fluted scales growing large towards the edge of the valve. The valves are white, tinged with lemon yellow towards the margin, and may reach 35-0 cm in length (22). In the southern Philippines and Indonesia some individuals are found with deep orange and yellow shells 2ti-6).
x: ; i  A"     ' '■   J
-' -A  J. -v-, Viii
i; V:
AIB.
Jy-riv
Mantle colour in most species varies geographically and ranges through brilliant blue, green, purple and brown depending on incident light. The vivid pigmentation is caused by iridophores and may help to protect the tissues against the effects of the intense light to which they are continually exposed 3U). It may also serve to confuse potential predators or to warn them of potential danger (16). When the mantle is fully expanded, the shell margins are entirely obscured by the scalloped, coloured siphonal tissues. The exhalant aperture, at the end of a tubular extension, is in the middle of the upper surface. The mantle tissues are briefly withdrawn when a shadow falls on them and only withdraw permanently during periods when animals are left exposed at the extreme low water of spring tides (33). The basic biological features of tridacnids are reviewed in (8).
DISTRIBUTION Restricted to limited areas of the Indo-pacific; their ecological requirements (shallow waters of coral reefs) and short larval life (preventing long range dispersal) may confine there to their present ranges (22).
Hippopus hippopus occurs from the Malay Peninsula to eastern Melanesia. There are records for at least the following countries: Singapore, Ryukyu Islands, Philippines, Indonesia, North Borneo, Western Australia and Queensland, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Vanuatu, (New Hebrides), Fiji, New Caledonia, Caroline Islands, Marshall Islands, Gilbert Islands, Tonga (22).
H. porcellanus appears to have a more restricted range than H. hippopus but overlaps with it. It is known from the Sulu Archipelago in the southern Philippines, one specimen has been recorded off Masbate Island, central Philippines it5), and specimens have been recorded recently from Indonesia (16).
98

