ix, d, 4 Cowles: Palaemons of the Philippine Islands 357
about equal width. Usually those teeth which are near the distal end of the upper border are separated from one another more than those posterior to them. The first tooth is nearly always separated from the second tooth by a distance which is considerably greater than the distances separating the teeth immediately anterior to them. The dental formula for the
specimens in the collection is — — '    but the large
4, o, b, l
majority of the females show a dental formula of — '-= —
First pair of legs. — The first legs extend beyond the tip of the antennal scale in all specimens; in the youngest, only the propodus is seen beyond it, but in larger specimens more of the first legs overreaches the scale, and finally in the largest individuals as much as one-third of the carpus extends beyond it.
Chelipeds. — The chelipeds in this species are approximately equal. All the females have chelipeds which are shorter than the body, and the same is true of practically all the males until they reach a length of about 77 millimeters. Beyond this size the chelipeds are usually longer than the body, and in certain specimens, Nos. 15, 16, and 17, which I consider to be young mature males, they are relatively long. In the largest female, No. 38, the tip of the merus extends beyond the antennal scale, while in the smallest female, No. 25, three-fourth of the carpus overreaches the scale. One of the largest males, No. 20, shows more than one-half of the merus beyond the scale, while in the smallest male only four-fifths of the carpus extends beyond it.
It will be seen, if reference is made to Table III, that the fingers of all individuals are shorter than the palm, except in Nos. 1 and 2, which are the smallest males in the series. In the case of the males the palm seems to grow much faster than the fingers, so that an individual 88 millimeters long (No. 14) has a palm one and two-thirds times as long as the fingers. One of the young mature males, No. 20, shows the palm to be one and three-fourths times as long as the fingers. The largest males in the series have chelipeds which are shorter than the body length except in the case of No. 23. At first sight I considered these specimens to be "males feminises" but upon examining them more closely I find that they have well-developed spines on the carapace and abdominal somites and I am of the opinion that these individuals are old mature males whose chelipeds are regenerating. The palm of the largest male, No. 24, is a little more than one and one-half times the length of the fingers.

