18 BOURNS AND WORCESTER: PRELIMINARY NOTES.
A female measured 350 in length.
Culmen, 68.
Wing, 158.
Tail, 90.
Tarsus, 52.
Habitat: Negros, Cebu, Masbate.
This pretty species can be readily distinguished from the last, its nearest ally, by its orange yellow throat with heavier orange red markings.
The female also differs from that of Aethopyga arolasi in having a yellow rump.
16.
Aethopyga in hint a sp. nov.
Adult male.
Like Aethopyga arolasi, but smaller, and the throat pure yellow without the faintest trace of orange red.
We regret that we are unable to furnish exact measurements because our type specimen, a male in fine plumage disappeared from the collection in July, 1894.
Habitat: Mindoro:
This tiny species is rare in Mindoro and was seen by us on but two occasions.
17.
Dicaeiim pallid for sp. nov.
Adult male.
Above exactly like D. dorsale, which by the way has the back slaty blue, not slaty grey, as stated in Cat.
 B, Vol.
x  p. 40.
Entire under surface yellow, only slightly deeper on the breast, and not rich orange as in D. dorsale.
Habitat: Cebu.
Were it not that we have a large series of birds from Cebu in breeding plumage we should not think of separating the Cebu birds, but with the series of specimens now before us we cannot do otherwise.
The almost uniform yellow under surface of D. pallidior, contrasts strongly with the yellow throat and abdomen and bright orange breast of D. dorsale.
Young males of D. dorsale show streaks of orange on the breast long before reaching maturity, hence the difference is not a matter of age and, as we have already remarked, our Cebu birds were in breeding plumage.
The female is like that of D. dorsale.
Measurements of eleven males: Length, 350 inches.
Culmen, 55.
Wing, 192.
Tail, 103.
Tarsus, 51.
Of four females: Length, 331.
Wing, 188.
Tail, 98.
Tarsus, 49.
18.
Dictum insibuyanica sp. nov.
A well marked species of the D. dorsale type and the largest representative of this type yet discovered in the Philippine islands.
A very noticeable characteristic is that fully adult birds always have the base of the lower mandible whitish as do the young of most other species of the genus.
