MARINE ANIMALS THAT ARE POISONOUS TO EAT 125
Snapper, Monotaxis grandoculis (Forskal) (Fig. 82, Top)  Polynesia, westward to east Africa.
Chinaman Fish, Paradicichthys venenatus Whitley (Fig. 82, Center). Australia.
Parrotfish, Scars caeruleus (Bloch) (Fig. 82, Bottom). Florida and West Indies.
Parrotfish, Scams microrhinos Bleeker (Fig. 83, Top). Indo-Pacific.
Seabass, Grouper, Cephalopholis argus Bloch and Schneider (Fig. 83, Next to Top). Tropical Indo-pacific.
Seabass, Plectropomus oligacanthus Bleeker (Fig. 83, Next to Bottom). Indonesia, Philippine, Caroline and Marshall Islands.
Seabass, Plectropomus truncatus (Fowler) (Fig. 83, Bottom). Micronesia, Indonesia, Philippines.
Seabass) Variola loutiforska) (Fig. 84, Top). Tropical Indo-Pacific.
Barracuda, Sphyraena barracuda (Walbaum) (Fig. 84, Bottom). Indo-pacific; from Hawaii to the Red Sea; west Atlantic from Brazil to the West Indies, Florida and Bermuda.
Medical Aspects. Tingling about the lips, tongue, and throat, followed by numbness may develop immediately or any time within a period of 30 hours after ingestion of the fish. The tingling sensation may be accompanied by such other symptoms as nausea, vomiting, metallic taste, dryness of the mouth, abdominal cramps, and diarrhoea. The muscles of the mouth, cheeks and jaws may become drawn and spastic, with a feeling of numbness. Headache, joint aches, nervousness, prostration, dizziness, pallor, cyanosis, inability to sleep, extreme weakness, and exhaustion are frequently present. The feeling of weakness may become progressively worse until the patient is unable to walk. Muscle pains are generally described as dull, heavy aches or cramping sensations, but may also be sharp, shooting, affecting particularly the arms and legs. Victims complain of their teeth feeling loose and painful in their sockets. Visual disturbances consisting of blurring, temporary blindness, sensitivity to light, and spots before the eyes are not uncommon. Skin disorders are frequently reported consisting of intense itching, red popular rash, blisters, extensive areas of loss of skin, especially of the hands and feet, and occasionally ulceration. There may also be loss of hair and nails.
In severe intoxication the nervous symptoms are particularly pronounced. The victim may interpret the feeling of cold as a
Fig. 79. Top to bottom: Squirrelfish, Myripristis murdjan (Forskal). Oceanic
Bonito, Katsuwonus pelamis (Linnaeus). Wrasse, Epibulus insidiat or (Pallas).
(From Hiyama) Wrasse, Julie gaimardi (Quoy and Gaimard). (Arita)

