NOTES ON DIPTEROCARPS. 275 The wood of Vatica and Pachynocarpus seems to be very much alike. The sapwood of Vatica Wallichii is white or pale yellow and the heartwood is brownish yellow, becoming much darker after exposure to the air. There is less of resin in the wood than is usually found in most memlbers of the order. A pale damar runs out of injuries and glazes over the stem. The tree attains no great height, reaching say 60 feet and the spread of its branches is narrow, say 10 feet from the trunk. If grown in the open it keeps its lower branches and is then leafy nearly to the ground; but in high forest its trunk is straight and branchless to 30 feet or more. A tree 50' feet high may possess a diameter at breast height of 20-30 inches. The bark is light grey and smooth.

Its times of flowering in Singapore are uncertain doubtless in response to the uncertainty of the weather. All trees flower together. Flowering however in the Peninsula seems to be most common in April or May. Individual trees differ from each other in small points. The leaves of some dry darker than the leaves of others. The flowers vary from a pale cream to milk-white; in some there is a touch of red upon the outside of the bud; examined at sun-down the petals may be bent just to a right angle on their claw, in others more. These variations characterise whole trees. It may be that the trees whose flowers are most pigmented, are the trees whose leaves dry darkest; but this has not been proved. A flower whose petals are bent through a right angle is figured below. The small eye is noteworthy. Fig. 5 on the left, a flower of Vatica Wallichii in face view: Fig. 6 on the right, a flower of Vatica Ridleyana, also in face view. Both nat. size. Below each is the stigma and style enlarged. The flowers have a strong and pleasant scent. By their multitude the}^ make the tree conspicuous at flowering. They open about dawn, and fall about the next dawn. The stamens number 15; — if 10 in such plants as that upon which Vatica Kelsalli was founded, then so by reduction, accidental probably. The flowers face downwards and outwards chiefly. Three or four distinct patches of glandular tissue occur in a row upon the underside of the leaves where the lateral veins break into loops. These leaves last for about 3 years. Six months pass before the fruit is ripe. The fruit is dry and water-distributed chiefly by means of floods. We have seen this process in operation in the Tasek Gelugor Forest Reserve in Province Wellesley, where heavy rain had flooded the R. A. Soc, No. 86 1922. 
