474 SMITH.
certain special areas likely to prove of economic interest; (3) topographic route sketching, and (4) securing a knowledge of the work of the prospectors in the field.
The party consisted of Warren D. Smith, geologist in charge; Maurice Goodman, mining engineer; Harry M. Ickis, topographer; Robert N. Clark, assistant; as well as Lieutenant Charles S. Caffery, United States Army, in charge of the military escort. The journey was only made possible by the assistance of the latter and our thanks are due to General Tasker H. Bliss, governor of the Moro Province, and to Lieutenant Caffery for their cordial assistance.
The map at the beginning of this paper shows the position of Mindanao and the Sulu group with relation to the remainder of the Archipelago. Roughly, these islands lie between the parallels 5° and 10' north latitude and between 119° and 127° east longitude. The route of the party is indicated by the heavy line.
The work was divided as follows  That on the Zamboanga Peninsula and the Sulu group was done by W. D. Smith accompanied by Lieutenant Charles S. Caffery: the vicinity of Cagayan and Iligan, Misamis Province, was investigated by H. M. Ickis, assisted by E. N. Clark; W. D. Smith and H. M. Ickis, accompanied by Lieutenant Caffery and an escort, surveyed from Camp Overton through the Lanao Lake country to Cotabato and from Cotabato to Davao; the ascent of Mount Apo was made by W. D. Smth, Maurice Goodman, and H. M. Ickis ; Maurice Goodman and H. M. Ickis Avent from Davao up the Tagum and Sahug Rivers to the headwaters of the Agusan and thence to Talacogon. Maurice Goodman then proceeded to Surigao and Placer, while H. M. Ickis made a reconnaissance to San Jos6 de Bislig and back to Talacogon.
II. PREVIOUS WORK OF A GEOGRAPHICAL OR GEOLOGIC NATURE IN
MINDANAO.
No attempt will be made to review the work of all the men who have undertaken expeditions through the southern islands of the Philippine Archipelago. I shall confine my attention to those who have contributed in a marked degree to our laiowledge of their geology and geography.
The first map of Mindanao Which is at all accurate was made by the Jesuit Fathers. Of course, this map is based on little or no triangulation, but when the size, nature of the country, and state of the natives are considered the work reflects great credit upon those who did it.
Since the American occupation the United States Army has done practically all the mapping which has been accomplished in Mindanao. The work of this organization has been excellent. Besides making route maps of all the country traversed in the course of its expeditions, it has begun a progressive military map which shows the topography by contours, based on triangulation. This will, when completed, be by far the most accurate work done over so large an area by any organization in these Islands.
The United States Coast and Geodetic Survey is now engaged in surveying the coasts of the southern islands.

