NOTES ON DIPTEKOCARPS. 289 pus maximus the placentar cotyledon occupies the basal part of the cavity of the fruit and the outer cotyledon the apical; and they are of nearly equal bulk : in Vatica Wallichii, they are also of nearly equal bulk and they share the fruit-cavity equally, but side by side instead of as in Balano carpus the one above the other: but in Vatica Ridleyana with inequality, the placentar cotyledon occupies the basal and shares the apical part. There is enwraping neither in Vatica Ridleyana nor in Vatica Wallichii; and the cells in both are gorged with starch. The young plant after emergence is singularly similar in the two, the leaves are exactly alike, even to the 6-8 large glands upon the lower surface at the looping of the veins, surrounded by the richest green, of chlorophyll. Unlike the fruits of Vatica Wallichii, the fruits of Vatica Ridleyana do not float in water, not even if dried. In germination the fibrous fruit-wall splits from the apex downwards along pre-determined lines, possibly along one line to its base and for a short way only along others: the radicle is thrust out by the elongation of the petioles of the cotyledons, as in Vatica Wallichii, Shorea robusta, the genus Dipt ero carpus. The blades of the cotyledons never leave the fruit-cavity, but develop a little, — very little — chlorophyll where they become exposed to the light. The lines where the fruit-wall is split in germination, can be seen beforehand upon the outer side of the fruit, as they are depressed and free from the elsewhere abundant lenticels. The fruit-wall is thinner at them and the cell-structure differs. These lines are usually three, but may be four and may be five in number. In studying the flower when it was available in January, 1921, (see this Journal 1 p. 276), five-locular ovaries were not observed ; but as their presence was not suspected, no search was made for them : it was onty when, twelve months later, the fruit was ripe that their existence was suggested by finding five lines of splitting in a small percentage of the fruits. Out of 263 fruits, 201 had three lines, 57 had four lines, and 5 had five lines. It is most interesting that when the fruit shows four depressed lines upon the outside, three only as a rule are burst open, so that out of 17 fruits with four lines,, set to germinate together, 15 were split along three and 2 only along four lines. Of the first fifteen in 13 the line which was not split, was that close to the placenta. Four fruits with five depressed lines, set to germinate at the same time likewise became split along three only of the lines, and again a line not split was that closest to the placenta. That these lines are the places where the carpels are connate into the ovary admits of doubt because in fruits with four lines, the placenta is rarely central upon any one of the valves. The development must be followed out to demonstrate that it is as one would expect. The fruit-wall is composed of brown parenchymatous cells, white sclerenchyma fibres and a margin of cork with numerous powdery lenticels. R. A. Soc, No. 86 1922. 
