504 The Philippine Journal of Science 1922 

3 mm long. Corolla lobes inequilateral, oblong-elliptic, obtuse, about 8 mm long, 3.5 mm wide, the exposed parts appressed-pubescent with short hairs. Stamens 15, in pairs, the common filament flattened, oblong-ovate, 0.6 mm long, abruptly contracted into the filiform filament proper which is 0.2 mm long or less; anthers broadly ellipsoid, 0.3 mm long, glabrous, the connective prolonged as a slender filiform glabrous appendage, 1.5 to 1.7 mm long. Ovary ovoid, glabrous ; style stout, 2 mm long, apiculate. Fruit unknown. Kwangtung Province, Tung Sing, K. K. Ts'oong 2014, July 27, 1918, with the local name man ling shii. This is the first representative of the family to be found in China proper. It is apparently allied to Shorea cochinchinensis Pierre and S. harmandii Pierre, but is at once distinguished from both by its fewer-nerved leaves. 

MYRTACEAE

EUGENIA Linnaeus 

EUGENIA TSOONGII sp. nov. 

Frutex glaber, ramis teretibus, ramulis tenuibus, acute quadrangulatis; foliis numerosis, confertis, parvis, crasse coriaceis, anguste oblongis, 1.5 ad 2.5 cm longis, obtusis, basi acutis, nervis lateralibus, obscuris vel subobsoletis ; inflorescentiis terminalibus, circiter 3 cm longis, anguste paniculatis; floribus omnibus pedicellatis, circiter 12 mm longis, calycis oblongis, 4 mm longis, 2.5 mm diametro, basi cuneatis, in siccitate rugosis, obscure angulatis, glaucescentibus, lobis reniformibus, rotundatis, 1 mm longis ; petalis orbicularis, 2 mm diametro. A glabrous shrub, the branches terete, grayish or reddish brown, the branchlets slender, sharply 4-angled, the internodes mostly 5 mm long or less. Leaves very numerous, crowded, narrowly oblong, thickly coriaceous, 1.5 to 2.5 cm long, 4 to 6 mm wide, the upper surface olivaceous, slightly shining, with small scattered pits, the lower surface a little paler, not punctate, the apex rounded, base acute, the midrib impressed on the upper surface, rather prominent on the lower surface; lateral nerves up to 10 on each side of the midrib, very obscure, sometimes obsolete or nearly so ; petioles about 1 mm long. Inflorescences terminal and in the uppermost axils, about 3 cm long, narrowly paniculate. Flowers white, all pediceled, chiefly in threes, at the tips of the ultimate branchlets, including the stamens about 12 mm long, the pedicels 1.5 to 2 mm long. Brac-
