130 Gr. King — Materials for a Flora of the Malayan Peninsula. [No. 2, nerves 8 or 9 pairs, oblique, slightly curving, prominent beneath; length 4 to 5 in., breadth 1.75 to 2 in., petiole .5 in. Panicles 4 to 6 in. long, stellate-pubescent; bracteoles caducous. Flowers shortly stalked. Calyx-segments minutely tomentose. Petals .5 in. long, pale tomentose. Stamens 30 to 36, in 3 series, the filaments dilated at the base: anthers with equal valves. Ovary sericeous, style glabrous. Ripe fruit sub-globose, acuminate, pale tomentose, about .25 in. in diam.; fruiting-calyx forming a cup -with a concave short tube embracing the fruit, the seg-ments spreading, re-curved, the 3 outer .65 in. in length and breadth, the 2 inner smaller. Heim, "Recherches sur les Dipterocarpacees," p. 51. Pahang: Ridley, No. 2626. Distrib. Bangka, Borneo. Leaf-specimens of what appear to be this tree were collected by Mr. Wray (Herb. No. 3426) in Upper Perak. 9. Balanocabpus, Beddome. Glabrous or puberulous, rarely scabrid, resinous trees, with in-conspicuous fugaceous stipules. Leaves entire, coriaceous or membran-ous, penni-nerved. Flowers secund, sessile or shortly pedicelled. Sepals distinct or united at tbe base, imbricated, two quite external to the others; in fruit sub-equal, only slightly enlarged, woody, thickened, and forming a 5-lobed cup round the base of (but rarely enveloping) the fruit, not adnate to it and never expanding into wings. Petals elliptic, obliquely acuminate, the apices slightly inflexed in bud or not inflexed at all. Stamens 15, attached to the bases of the petals, in 3 rows; or 10 in 2 rows, sub-equal, the filaments much dilated at the base, the connec-tive prolonged into a straight apical awn longer than the ovate anther. Torus flat. Ovary 3-celled, cells 2-ovuled, ovules collateral. Style short. Stigma minute, entire. Fruit oblong or sub-globose, apiculate; the pericarp ligneous or sub-ligneous. Seed solitary, erect; cotyledons fleshy, plano-concave, the larger 2-or 3-lobed, or entire; the radicle prominent. Southern Peninsular India, Malaya. Probably 12 species. Leaves glabrous, smooth. Leaves ovate-lanceolate or ovate, caudate-acu-minate. Stamens 15 Fruit entirely enveloped in the slight-ly enlarged calyx ... ... 1. B. Curtisii. Only the lower part of the fruit en-veloped by the calyx ... ... 2. B. penangianus. Stamens 10 ... ... ... 3. B. anomalus. 
