530 Philippine Journal of Science 1919
need the specimens in the preserving fluid, the galls and insects being given the same number in the accession record.
Longitudinal and cross sections were made of the mature galls, and these were drawn to show the details in structure and the mechanism peculiar to each case.
No hard and fast rule can be laid down as to the methods to be followed in breeding the insects from their galls. Conditions were different in each case, and laboratory methods had to be modified accordingly. In general, battery jars with fine muslin held on by elastic bands at the top proved to be the best form of breeding receptacle, a decided advantage in favor of these being that the green parts of the plants were kept adequately exposed to the light and that inspection and cleaning were easy. During dry months the materials had to be moistened at least once a day by spraying them with water from a small hand atomizer. Care was taken not to wet the plants too much, for then decay would set in, or the adult insects on emergence would be entrapped by the film of water on the plant surface or the inner wall of the jar and spoiled. The jars were inspected every morning and the adults caught by means of a short test tube. The removal of the adults as soon as they emerged was a necessary measure, because when allowed to stay in the vessel for a longer time many of them would be lost or badly mutilated among the moist plant materials.
Throughout the progress of the work precautions were taken against certain small spiders which, when accidentally introduced into the jar with the plant materials, would prey upon the gall insects as fast as the latter emerged. As a measure against this pest, the pieces of plants were thoroughly shaken, one by one, before being placed into the jars, and a constant watch was kept for the appearance of any of the spiders that might have hatched from eggs accidentally introduced.
Another piece of apparatus used consisted of a light-tight cardboard box with the mouth ends of test tubes or vials inserted into one side. This device was supposed to work on the principle that most insects are attracted to the light ; and the interior of the box being dark, except at the insertion of the glass tubes, the insects on emerging were supposed to enter the latter. The apparatus had been used with good results and had been indorsed by the California Board of Horticulture and by the cotton-boll weevil investigators. 9 The results with this device in
Banks, Nathan, Directions for Collecting and Preserving Insects, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus. 67 (1909) 115, with figure.
