THE HABITUAL USE OF OPIUM AS A FACTOR IN THE PRODUCTION OF DISEASES.
By Tee Han Kee. From the Bureau of Health, Manila, P. I.
It is not the intention of this paper to discuss at length the therapeutic use of opium as a medicine, nor is it my desire to treat of the symtomalogy and psychology of the opium habit, for such an attempt would lead away from by main purpose, which is to give an account of the motives of the Chinese in using opium; how they use it, and lastly what are the results, or, in other words, diseases produced by the habit.
Two main reasons could be given as the motives of the Chinese for using opium: 1. For pleasure. 2. As a medicine.
1. For pleasure. — After careful inquiry among the Chinese as to their reasons for using opium, the majority of the confirmed consumers will tell us that they began the use of the drug simply for "pleasure" if so it may be termed. The reason the Chinese choose opium may be because it is not so violent a stimulant as alcohol. The force of example and of fashion must also be taken into account in describing the reasons the Chinese have for taking opium. In society, restaurants and public places, opium is almost always offered.
2. As a medicine. — The second motive of the Chinese in using opium is due to the widespread popular belief in the medical efficacy of the drag. It has been proved in China that the opium habit, in the majority of cases, dates from the time when the drug was taken for medicinal purposes. In some cases the chronic or recurrent character of the malady necessitates repeated doses. in others the exhilaration and general sense of comfort induced, result in repetition long after the ailment for which the drug was originally taken has passed away. It is a common domestic medicine of the people. It is taken in cases of specific disorders, such as dysentery, rheumatism, tuberculosis, diabetes, and diarrhoea. In malarial and damp tracts there is a general faith in its virtue, either for
1 Read at the Fourth Annual Meeting of the Philippine Medical Association, March 3, 1907.
63

