1893.] G. King -Materials for a Flora of the Malayan Peninsula. 103 Leaves 2.5 to 3.5 in. long, with about 7 or 8 pairs of faint, main nerves, minutely reticulate. 9. V. reticulata. 1. Vatica perakensis, King, n. sp A tree 60 to 80 feet high; young branches slender, deciduously scurfily stellate-pubescent, the bark rather pale. Leaves thinly coriaceous, oblong-lanceolate, rarely oblanceolate, more or less bluntly acuminate, sometimes caudate, the base cuneate; both surfaces glabrous, the midrib on the upper puberu-lous; main nerves 10 to 12 pairs, rather prominent beneath; length 2.5 to 4 in., breadth .8 to 1.3 in., petiole .4 to .5 in. Panicles axillary and extra-axillary, crowded near the ends of the branches, 1 to 2 in. long, minutely pale tomentose, as are the ovate-lanceolate calyx-lobes. Flowers .4 in. long. Petals narrowly oblong, obtuse, glabrous. Stamens slightly apiculate. Ovary minutely tomentose; stigma conical. Ripe fruit .3 in. in diam., globose, the style persistent, minutely tomentose, quite free from the calyx; the two accrescent calyx-lobes oblong-ob-lanceolate, obtuse, obscurely 5-nerved, 2.5 in. long and .5 in. broad; minor lobes unequal, lanceolate-acuminate, the largest about .85 in long. Perak: King's Collector, Wray; a common tree. Pangkore: Curtis. The nearest ally of this is Vatica Bantamensis, Benth. and Hook.; but that has rather larger and more coriaceous leaves, which are perfect-ly glabrous; larger flowers with petals scaly externally and a more scurfy inflorescence; moreover the whole of the accrescent calyx-lobes of its fruit are more coriaceous and the minor lobes are blunter. 2. Vatica Lowii, King, n. sp. A tree 60 to 80 feet high: young branches, petioles, inflorescence and calyx densely rusty, scurfy-tomen-tose with stellate hair intermixed, the branches ultimately glabrous and with dark bark. Leaves coriaceous, oblong, sub-acute, the base rounded; both surfaces glabrous, the midrib puberulous on the upper; main nerves 13 to 15 pairs, spreading, slightly prominent beneath; length 2.5 to 3.5 in., breadth 1 to 1.5 in., petiole .3 to .4 in. Panicles axillary and terminal, much crowded towards the ends of the branches; .75 to 1.5 in. long. Flowers .25 in. long. Calyx-lobes lanceolate, acumi-nate, oblique. Petals narrowly oblong, obtuse, almost glabrous. Stamens short, unequal-sided, apiculate. Ovary depressed, tomentose, style capitate. Ripe fruit globular, .25 in. in diam, deciduously rufous-scurfy; the style persistent, quite free from the calyx. Two large calyx-wings narrowly oblong, sub-acute, scarcely narrowed at the base, 5-nerved, 2.75 to 3 in. long, and .6 in. broad; the three smaller lobes sub-equal, about .5 or .6 in. long, lanceolate, obtuse. Perak: Scortechini, No. 2108; King's Collector, No. 7496. This species is closely allied to V. Maingayi, Dyer; but has smaller flowers, and rather larger leaves with considerably longer petioles. J. II. 14 
