Leguminosae. 13
This plant is easily distinguished from Bauhinia ferruginea Roxb. by the shape and length of the calyx -tube, the externally thinly pubescent petals, and the leaves which are beneath pubescent.
Sect. Y Casparia. 13. Bauhinia Kappleri Sagot.
Middle Luzon, Arayat (Warburg no. 13743).
Urban in his extremely interesting morphological investigations in regard to the genus Bauhinia (in Ber. deutsch. bot. Ges. Ill 1885] p. 83), takes occasion to describe the peculiar species Bauhinia Krugii. He states that the specimens he had examined evidently came from cultivated shrubs. Later he discovered that Sagot (in Ann. s. nat. 6. ser. XIII 1882] p. 317), three years before, had described the same species from Guiana (cf. Urb. Symb. antill. I 1899] p. 315). Subsequently there came to the Berlin Herbarium a specimen of Bauhinia from the Calcutta Gardens, sent by Dr. Prain, under the name of Bauhinia monandra S. Kurz. B. monandra S. Kurz (in Journ. Asiat. Soc. Bengal. XLII, 2 1873] p. 73) was based upon a plant which Beandis collected in Burma. Dr. Harms informs me, that he is of the opinion, that very probably Bauhinia monandra S. Kurz was identical with Bauhinia Krugii Urban, but that the matter can only be definitely settled after a comparison has been made with the original. The description of Kurz answers very well for Urban's species.
As in America the species only occurs in cultivation, the home of the plant may possibly be Burma. Unfortunately Warburg, in the material he collected in the Philippines, does not mention if he found the plant in a wild or in a cultivated state. Very recently this species has been found by Busse in East Africa, near Dar-es-salam, where it is cultivated on account of its beautiful flowers. In the Sandwich Islands it is also planted, as is proved by a specimen collected by Hildebrand bearing the label Bauhinia variegata (Hort. Honolulu). Urban says, that the species is intermediate between sections Casparia and Phanera. It is placed by Taubert (Engl-prantl, Pflzfam. Ill, 3 p. 151) in the section Casparia.
The typical representatives of this section, especially distinguished by having only one fertile stamen, are without

