GEOLOGIC RECONNAISSANCE OP MINDANAO AND SULU. 493
FOIL COTABATO TO DAVAO.
The town of Cotabato is situated on the south bank of the novel branch of the Rio Grande de Mindanao. It consists of a collection of low, white, Spanish houses fairly close together, with the usual native huts straggling about in the environs. Just south of and on the edge of the town is a limestone hill about 150 meters high from which a magnificent panorama (Plates XVI and XVII) can be obtained of the surrounding country. This hill is an outpost of a greater mass which is to be found to the south, and which formerly was undoubtedly still more extensive; it is very remarkable in that it stands out in the middle of the great delta, which forms all the river plain from the mouth of the river back and even beyond Fort Pikit.
The most notable feature of the topography of this plain, beside the hill just mentioned, is the old terrace lines which swing along, but not always parallel to, either side of the river. These terraces are undoubtedly of marine origin, for close to Cotabato they are seen to be raised coral-reef shelves with the characteristic steep seaward slope of such formations. The evidence seems quite sufficient, to me at least, to suppose that the sea once swept far up this intermontane region which is now so filled with sediment. Indeed, I am convinced that it one time extended through to the Gulf of Davao, for in the stretch between the Pulangui Ei--er and Davao there are very recent sediments and volcanics which have closed up the passage.
Cotabato hill is composed of a cavernous limestone with a fair sprinkling of fossils, corals, gastropods, lamellibranchs, etc, all of comparatively recent age, presumably Miocene, although no specific determinations have as yet been made.
Plate XVIII shows the interior of a native salt-making establishment at the lower end of the delta. Sea water is sprayed over glowing embers, the salt is precipitated and afterwards washed on and run through the large filter shown in the background of the picture. This filter contains wood ashes and earth. At the Moro foundry near Cotabato, bolos, prices, and many metal boxes of brass and silver are fashioned.
After some delay, we set out for Datu Piang's place at Cuderangan, some 50 Kilometers above Cotabato. Here we learned from Lieutenant Younglof, Philippine Scouts, of oil seeping from the river bank about half way between Veins Eugene and Fort Pikit and also near Pikit of a blue, plastic, oily clay which burns to a white color and is quite re-fractor). The Moros are said to come great distances to obtain this material.
Eeina Eegente is on a hill of limestone similar to that of Cotabato. It is a monadnock. The underlying foundation is sandstone which will doubtless he found to be a good water carrier; it is very probable that good conditions for artesian wells can be obtained at almost any point of the valley.
78322 6

