BROWN, A. ALCALA, DIESMOS AND E. ALCALA: PLATYMANTIS
Table 2.
Comparison of body proportions (in ) of five species of the guentheri Group (N  number of specimens).
Species
HWTIL
3FDTD
3FD3FL
P. guentheri
Range
N P. rabori
Range
N P. negrosensis
Range
N P. luzonensis
Range
N P. banahao
Range
N
62-74 43
78-90 40
80-92 20
79-93 21
85-94 12
disks of toes smaller than those of fingers, 3TOD 55-86% of 3FD; subarticular tubercles strongly protruding, usually somewhat pointed; inner metatarsal tubercle oval; outer round; no plantar tubercles; dorsum nearly smooth or with a few tubercles and frequently with a pair of short, dark ridges in a chevron-pattern at shoulder level; venter nearly smooth; posterior thighs nearly smooth or with small granules.
COLOR.
— In preservative dorsum light to dark reddish brown or a mottling of the two; usually an anteriorly pointed, darker chevron at the shoulder level; often an interorbital dark blotch, more rarely a broad dorsal, paler band or narrow, pale, dorsolateral stripes; lips dark barred; limbs with pale and dark, irregular transverse bands; venter pale cream, sometimes nearly uniform, but usually with dense, brown flecks beneath head and throat; belly often with scattered brown spots, especially anteriorly.
Reproduction.
--None of the egg clutches collected from any of the arboreal sites in the forests on Bohol Island or Mt. Hilong-hilong in Mindanao have been confirmed as guentheri.
Several gravid females from these sites have 20-24 large (2-3 mm) unpigmented, ovarian or oviducal eggs.
These are similar to those of other species of Philippine Platymantis that exhibit
direct development, and presumably guentheri follows that mode.
Comparisons.
— Platymantis guentheri differs from rabori, negrosensis, luzonensis, and banahao, species with which it has long been confused, as indicated in the diagnosis and key.
INTER-ISLAND VARIATION.
— The samples of guentheri from Dinagat, Mindanao, and Biliran islands when compared to the Bohol sample, exhibit slightly greater SVL for females but not for males (Table 2).
ECOLOGICAL NOTE.
— As reported by Brown and Alcala (1963) for ingeri (= guentheri), this species is found in the surface stratum (among leaves and duff of the forest floor, occasionally under logs or rocks, and less frequently in the shrub or arboreal strata).
Of a total of 91 specimens (67 Bohol and 18 northeastern Mindanao), 67 (74) were from the surface stratum; 4 (45) low shrubs, 555) on trees, and 15 (16) in arboreal ferns or leaf axils ofpandanus.
The ferns inhabited by guentheri ranged from 4 to 13 m above the forest floor.
The range in elevation is from 700 m (upper dipterocarp) to 1900 m (montane forest) on Mt. Hilonghilong in northeastern Mindanao.
RANGE.
— Known from Mindanao, Dinagat, Bohol, and Biliran islands.
