— 324 — Fruit one-seeded by abortion, as a rule spherical of depressed spherical, rarely conical >'. kanneliyensis) or pointed (S. reticulatus) , roughish because of a pattern of minute, polygonal areas ; sepals persistent, either unaltered, adpressed to the base of the fruit or patent or hardened and slightly enlarged, pointing downward, in N. kanneliyensis and S. reticulatus much thickened and pointing downward. Cotyledons small and simple or large, lobed, dissected and folded, green or red. No albumen. Germination : the fruit with thick pericarp (S. kanneliyensis, S. reticulatus, perhaps S. wightii) dehisce by valves, along the depressions : the thin <»r thinner skinned fruit crack irregularly, even when they are ribbed in immature stage. The hypocotyledon lengthens considerably and lifts the cots above the ground; they either remain in the pericarp (S. kanneliyensis) or unfold, become horizontal, fleshy, large, thick, wrinkled and incised, red or green. Cots equal or unequal. In some species at the base inside of the pericarp a Meshy cup with laciniate margins ; sometimes a fibrous mass between the cots (Heim, Brandis). The first leaves are, as in Vatica, whorled. Distribution : Wet zone in the S.W. parts of the island, in the Adam's Peak jungle and in the Knuckles Mts. at altitudes from sea leavel to 1700 m

Ecology : Always in the wettest parts, many along streams and streamlets in the Occurrence independent of depth of soil or kind of soil. Often in small populations far apart. Only a few reach timber size. They flower in definite periods after ice or twice a year. Flowers few. Fruit setting is rare to very rare (hence ire rare). Pollination by beetles, bees, butterflies. 

Since the inception of the genus Stemonoporus by Thwaites in IS54, it has moved through Valeria and Vatica and has nowadays been re-established as a proper genus. This implies that the generic delimitations, especially in the Vatica group (Vatica, Stemonoporus, Cotylelobium) are not satisl'actorilv solved. The trees of the three genera look much alike, and are in Ceylon known under one collective vernacular name : Mendora. Whereas in Shorea and Hopea all genera with more or less similar fruit characters are combined, this is not the ease in the Vatica group and this inconsistency is one of the reasons of the unsatisfactory situation. 

Thwaites originally recognized 11 species under Stemonoporus and 3 under Monoporandra. Under the influence of Bentham, he referred them all to Valeria in the Addendum of his book in 1854, even quoting Bk.muam as the author of the new combinations (this is under the latest Rules not ad missable. the combinations should be printed to be valid and not only suggested, as Bentham did). Thwaites even went one step further than Bentham and moved also Monoporandra to Valeria. Thiselton-Dyer followed suit, but meanwhile A. de Candolle had reduced Stemonoporus to Vatica, but — like all other botanists — up to Alston, kept Monoporandra separate. In his Addendum Thwaites added (under Valeria) 3 new species, of which Valeria
