FISHERY RESOURCES OP THE PHILIPPINES, I. 523
fathoms in length, and 20 to 25 fathoms in widtli wlien it is hung, it being deeper in the center than at the extreme wings. The boat end of one wing is from 1 to 10 fathoms deep; the other end varies from 7 to 15 fathoms. It is made of three kinds of twine. The baiung-piece, which is a section of the net occupy3dng about 10 to 12 fathoms along the center of the cork line and having about the same depth as length, is made of the stoutest twine. Beneath this, composing the remainder of the middle of the seine and extending to the bottom of the net, is a section knit of twine a size smaller. There is also a band of large twine, 15 meshes in depth, extending along the cork line of the seine on either side of the bailing-piece to the extremity of each wing. The remainder of the net is made of lighter twine. The lead and cork line are in the same position as in ordinary spines. This net is operated by a series of pursing ropes and rings, by means of which the bottom of the seine is drawn up and closed. Formerly this net was taken out in fishing schooners and when a shoal of fish was seen, it was placed in a seining boat, the shoal was surrounded by the net, the latter at once pursed, the vessel then brought alongside and the fish dipped out. Now, in some cases, the net is carried on a revolving table at the stern of a small steam-vessel or launch, and the surrounding of the shoal and pursing of the net is all done quickly and efficiently by steam. Frequently more fish are taken in this way than can be used in one day. In this event, they are put into a "spiller" or pocket, which is a form of live-box made of stout, coarse twine, and is attached to the side of the vessel, where it is kept in position by wooden poles or outriggers extending 15 feet from the vessel's side. This apparatus is nothing more than a big net bag 36 feet long, 15 feet wide, and 30 feet deep. This size will hold 200 barrels of live mackerel, but of course the spiller may be constructed of any dimensions. The purse net could probably be used with profit in catching the various kinds of mackerel viasangui, etc) found in Philippine waters.

