A REPORT ON THE FIRST ONE HUNDRED AUTOPSIES AT THE PHILIPPINE MEDICAL SCHOOL.
By Philip K. Gilman. From the Department of Pathology and Bacteriology, Philippine Medical School.
There have been a large number of autopsies performed by the Bureau of Government Laboratories and its successor, the Bureau of Science since the American occupation of these Islands. While in the cases of acute infectious diseases the diagnoses have been carefully made and recorded, and in other special cases full protocols have been preserved, in general the records are not adapted to furnish the basis for a complete statistical study of the relative frequency with which the different chronic diseases occur. A systematic study has been made, by gross and histology methods, of the pathology material, and complete records of the findings have been kept since the opening of the Philippine Medical School, in the department of pathology and bacteriology organized by Dr. H. T. Marshall. The examinations are made according to the usual Virchow routine, and are designed especially to furnish material and records for a general statistical inquiry. The routine includes the preservation of pieces of the organs in Zenker's fluid and subsequent histologic examinations.
No unusual efforts have been made to discover remote foci of tuberculosis or syphilis, and the examination for the presence of intestinal parasites has not been altogether complete. Cultures were made in only a few instances. The nerves were examined for degenerations in only one or two cases in which a clinical report rendered the diagnosis of beriberi probable.
The following report is based upon the findings in the first one hundred autopsies performed at the  Philippine Medical School between August, 1907, and January, 1908. Although the number of cases is comparatively small, these findings should give a good conception of the relative frequency among the lower classes of Filipinos of the commoner diseases, with the exception of the acute epidemic ones, for the bodies came from the free wards of the large hospitals and from the poorer quarters of the city of Manila. Cholera, smallpox, leprosy, etc, are treated only in the special hospital for these diseases, and such conditions would not enter into our records except on rare occasions.
211.

