REMARKS UPON TWO SPECIES OF DEER OF THE GENUS CERVUS FROM THE PHILIPPINE ARCHIPELAGO, BY D. G. ELLIOT, F. R. S. E
In a former paper, issued last May (1896), I described two species of deer from Basilan and Culion, respectively, of the Philippine Archipelago, the first as C. steerii; and in the case of the latter I refrained from bestowing a name upon it, as I had not seen the paper on Philippine deer published by Heude in China.
Cervus steerii was compared with C. philippinus and C. nigricans, Brooke. Last autumn, having had an opportunity to examine the type of C. philippinus in the Natural History Museum in the Jardin des Plantes, Paris, through the courtesy of my friend, Dr. E. Oustalet, I ascertained that my new species was hardly comparable with it in any way save a similarity in the shape of the antlers; C. steerii is not much over half the size of C. philippinus, and differs also in the color of the coat. In fact it would seem to belong to quite another section of the group, than that represented by C. philippinus. Beside the type, there were several other examples of the species in the Museum, but all of them, even the young animals, were much larger than the type of C. steerii. It would seem, therefore, that we must look for its near ally in some other species of Philippine deer, as yet unknown to me.
In the splendid library of the Zoological Society of London, I was able to find a copy of Heude's paper on the deer of the Philippine islands, and after careful search was unable to ascertain that the species of deer described by me from Culion was mentioned. The paper is really of little assistance in determining the various species, and the author appears to have seen a new one in almost every example he procured, and unless one has access to the material in his possession it will be practically impossible to recognize the animals upon which he has bestowed so great a list of names. Therefore I propose to christen the animal from Culion, and call it CERVUS CULIONENSIS, in order that, at all events, the Museum specimens can be intelligently referred to.

