641 it should not be represented by more specimens lower down ^44 and why it disappears almost entirely on the ridge leading to Limay Peak is not known. The explanation of its scarcity in the latter locality is probably correlated with the extension of the Bambusa-Parkia formation higher up the mountain in this situation. That the heat of the low country is not too great for it to flourish is evidenced by the fact that on the east coast of Luzon, where the dry season is less pronounced, it descends nearly to sea level. The topography of this formation is similar to that of the previous one discussed — i. e., it shows alternating prominent ridges and valleys. With the exception of its non-occurrence on the steep slopes, where the vegetation is thin and in the beds of the river canyons. Dipterocarpus itself is not confined to any particular topographic type. At the extreme upper limits of the apitong zone is a sharp knob where all the soil has been washed off, leaving the half-disintegrated volcanic rock exposed on the surface. On this area, out of 60 trees noted, 18 were Quercus sp.; 11, Vatica mangachapoi; 10, Shorea polysperma; 9, Eugenia pallida; 5, Symplocos oblongifolia, and the remainder Dipterocarpus grandiflorus, Ternstroemia toquian, Aporosa symplocosifolia, and Plectronia viridis. All these species in this situation have much reduced leaves and the trees show a tendency to become dwarfed. This plot is the lowest place which was observed on the mountain, where exposure to wind dwarfs the trees of the forest. The climbing bamboo (Dinochloa tjankorreh) is characteristic on the open places on steep slopes. No other bamboos are present in the formation. Young trees of the Dipterocarpacea with Memecylon edule, Aporosa sphaeridophora, Diospyros pilosanthera, Uvaria alba, Claoxylon rubescens, Codiaeum luzonicum, Leea philippinensis, Litsea luzonensis, Dracaena augustifolia, and Tabernaemontana pandacaqui form the undergrowth. In its response to the xerophytic conditions of the dry season, this formation differs from the Anisoptera-Strombosia one in having fewer deciduous trees. Isolated specimens of Parkia roxburghii are about the only individuals which shed their leaves completely during a portion of the dry season, but nearly all the trees show a thinner foliage. Dipterocarpus grandiflorus completely changes its leaves during January and February, but simultaneously with the dropping of the old, new ones take their place. At this season of the year the thick bed of dead Leaves on the ground, the large, red. bud scales appearing with the new leaves and the large, sweet-scented flowers of this species accentuate its numerical importance. The ground itself is so completely covered with fallen foliage that this characteristic, together with the thin undergrowth, reminds one strikingly of the forests of temperate regions in the autumn. Plates XXIV and XX VIII will give some idea of the gen-

**Only one was noted in the Anisoptera-Strombosia formation and none were observed above an altitude of 450 meters. 43814——5
