484SMITH.
THE SULU ARCHIPELAGO.
The Sulu Archipelago is practically unknovii from a geologic and physiographic point of view, so that the information gained in this expedition, although meager, is at least new.
Dr. Becker refers in four lines of this report to rocks on Marongas Island just across from the town of Jolo. Other than this there are no geological notes. Some eruptions of the year 1614 are described by the resident Jesuits but only in a crude way. It has been known for a long time from the reports of ship captains and travelers that the archipelago is largely volcanic.
This great group of islands extends for 335 kilometers southwest of Zamboanga. It is about 120 kilometers wide and contains hundreds of islands and rocky shoals. The most considerable of the islands are Basilan, Sulu, Siasi, and Tawi-tawi and although Basilan is the largest, Sulu is of far greater commercial and historic interest.
The water is nowhere of great depth within the confines of this archipelago, but it is separated both from Borneo and Mindanao by deep straits. To reconstruct a large island out of this swarm of small ones which may or may not have formed a continuous bridge from Borneo to Zamboanga, and which would since have been disrupted and partly submerged, is not a great tax upon the imagination. The evidence we have points in this direction.
The Sulu group, like so many other oceanic islands, is either of volcanic or coral formation. I saw very little sedimentary material on any of the islands and where any such was exposed, it was usually at a point where erosion had removed the lava capping. I do not know of any marked volcanic activity in the Sulu Archipelago at the present time, although hot springs in old craters are reported on Cagayan Sulu. I have also been informed that there are hot springs and solfataras at Siit Lake on Sulu. This lake occupies an old crater. I have visited neither of these places.
An eruption at a point near Jolo, not named, is reported to have occurred on January 4, 164-1 As there is some confusion of names in this report I do not attach much importance to the account. As far as I can learn, no accurate scientific notes were taken at the time.
The only remaining reference I find regarding the geography or geology of the Sulu Archipelago is a note by Becker "
"In the Jolo Archipelago, the charts indicate several well-developed atolls, such as Simonul Island (latitude 4° 52, longitude 119° 50), as well as several in the Tapul group (latitude 5° 30). The charts of this region also show innumerable coral reefs, which are bare at low tide and must therefore have been uplifted"
" Baranera, Francisco X.  Compendio de geografia de las Islas Filipinas, marianas, Jolo y Carolinas. 3r ed. Manila, 1892. " Geology of the Philippine Islands, 562.

