THE ANIMAL LIFE OF THE GROUP. 479
dance, while such genera as Pavouia, Favia, Leptastrea and fipjuisln t occur in isolated places here and there in certain favorable locality is.
The mushroom coral--' or huahua akai, forms a rejiiarkable group of solitary corals that are fairly common, especially in his or reef pools on the outer edge of the reef. They take their name from their i-csciiiljlanco to the inverted head of an expanded mushroom. They are remarkable and beaulifiil objects, and make handsome souvenirs of a day's visit to a coral reef. The "sea mushroom" or in fact any of the corals, can be easily cleaned if they are placed in a bucket of fresh water before they have been out of Ibe seawater long enough for the animal to die and begin to dry up. Ivuli day or so the water should be changed and the macerating animal washed out by a stream of water from the hydrant. When thoroughly cleansed the coi-il should be placed on a clean board in the sun to bleach.
Perhaps the most strikingly beautiful of the stalked corals is a species  which so far has only been found on Oahu. growing on the edge of the small coral islands in Kaneohe Bay. When alive the animal is a rich red-orange color and has the top of each short branch surrounded by a single orange-yellow polyp that when expanded is three-fourths of an inch in diameter. On the approach of danger the animal can completely withdraw within the cup in which it lives.
So far as known, the bi-ain corals  have never been taken in Hawaiian waters. They, together with many other forms offered for sale in the curiosity shops of Honolulu, doubtless come from the islands of the south Pacific or from the Philippines.
The Eight-rayed Corals.
While the Alcyonarians are seldom seen by the reef collector-. it is a matter of interest to know that of the sixty-eight species of the "eight-rayed corals" taken by the Albatross on its epoch-making cruise about the islands, thirty-nine were described as new to science in Dr. 0. (. Xuhinu's i-leporis on ihe material. He states that of the three orders of Alciotiaria discussed in his paper, the first-including the colonial forms, usually typitiml by the organ-pipe coral, are represented by only five species.
Sea-pens and Ska-fans.
The order-' including the sea-pens and similar forms when-e tlu' colonies are arranged bilaterally and symmetrically on an axial stem. ha-e site species in the off-shore fauna. The sea-fans. sea-iluines and their allies loi-m the most abundant order-Like the otheiorders of the class, they nil have eight-rayed polyps. The beautiful hoi-ny li-ee oi-bush-like growth 1o be seen in museums, however, gives but little idea of the iiiieai-ance of the living animal. Forty-eight species ai-e included m the list of Hawaiian species. but
0 Funmidfv.  Dmidroiihiuin bikini. ' JcfJcfuifcihoAlcyonarta: 3n pinnliilii-i-a.
Gorffonacea.

