Section 6: Pacific & Australasia
An LIMA Network< was launched in 2000" as a social information-sharing and co-originating network for individuals, projects and organization involved in establishing and managing LIMBS and is playing a major role in promoting the protection of marine biodiversity, through its inclusion of all levels of local practitioners such as community members, traditional leaders, conservation staff, academic researchers, donors and decision-makers (IRAN, 2005). Country LIMA leaders coordinate activities on behalf of local LEMMAS. Having started In Fiji, the LIMA network Is particularly active in Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Federated States of Micronesia and Palau, and has spread to other countries notably Indonesia and the Philippines.
These initiatives have been supported by a number of programmes. The Coral Reef Initiative for the South Pacific (CRISP), launched in 2005 In partnership with PREP, has total funding of about US13 million with donors including the Agence Frangaise pour le Developpement (AFD), the French GEF, the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the UN Foundation, CI, and WWR The MPA component, supported by US4 million, is implemented by CI and Includes an output on marine conservation planning. About 20 MPAS in nine Pacific countries (Solomon, Vanuatu, New Caledonia, Wallis and Futuna, Fiji, Tuvalu, Kiribati, Cooks and French Polynesia) receive support, either directly or indirectly, through the LIMA network, from CRISP. A further output, implemented by the NGO Foundation of the Pacific People International (FSPI), provides support for establishing a regional social network, with cross-visits of stakeholders amongst and between different countries and regional training. Support for regional MPA networking is also provided by an internet portal called Reefbase Pacific Implemented by the World Fish Center (WC).
In 2006, Kiribati and the United States each established new MPAS that are comparable to the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park in size and biological diversity: the Phoenix Islands Protected Area (PIPA) in Kiribati and the North West Hawaiian Islands (WHO) Marine National Monument. PIPA, covering 410,000 km2, is the world's largest MPA and includes eight atolls and two submerged reef systems. It Is funded through CRISP and CI, and supported by the New England Aquarium in Baltimore which has been carrying out biological surveys. Consideration Is being given to banning commercial inshore reef fishing, including by foreign vessels within PIPA, although the 50 residents will be allowed to continue subsistence fishing (Vieux et ah, 2004). The NWHI MPA covers some 362,600 km, representing another very large area of protected marine habitat that will ultimately have a network of no-take
reserves within It. Traditional leadership, although no longer having legal authority over natural resources is still recognized in Hawaii and plays an Important role. The feasibility of using customarily-declared kapu or closed areas in marine resource management is being studied, and there are plans for a LIMA network.
The Samoa Fisheries Project, implemented by Fisheries Division with the Australian Agency for International Development (USAID) support, has assisted over 80 village communities to develop Fisheries Management Plans, 62 of which have set aside parts of their lagoons as reserves. An LUCNsupported project managed by the Division of Environment and Conservation of the Ministry of Natural Resources, Environment and Meteorology Is working with Alelpata and Safata Districts on the management of two MPAS. Progress towards the development of MPA networks In Papua New Guinea, Palau, Solomon Islands, Fiji, New Zealand and Australia Is described below.
611. PAPUA NEW GUINEA  KIMBE BAY AND
MADANG LAGOON MPA SYSTEMS In Papua New Guinea, MPA systems are being developed, using scientific ecological and socio-economic design principles combined with the LIMA concept In Kimbe Bay, with the support of a local NGO, Mahonia Na Dari, and TNC, and In Madang Lagoon, with the support of WWF and Wetlands International.
Kimbe Bay, on the north coast of the Island of New Britain, lies within the Bismarck Sea, which is recognized as a globally important area for high coral diversity, pelagic fish (particularly tuna) and cetaceans. With funding from the David and Lucille Packard Foundation, TNC and Mahonia Na Dari have designed an MPA network for the Bay that is designed specifically to address resilience to climate change (Figure 13). The aim is that at least 20% of the high priority areas are effectively protected and an additional 30% in the process of being protected (Green et al, 2007). This is a preliminary step in the development of a larger MPA network for the Bismarck Sea, to include two other priority areas: Tigak Islands (Kavieng, New Ireland Province) and Manus Island.
The scientific design of the MPA network was developed through a six step process, involving expert scientific advice, targeted research and monitoring, and an analytical design process. Rapid ecological assessments were undertaken to provide baseline ecological information. A scientific workshop was held with participants from TNC, local
78
httpwwwlmmanetworkorg
" httpwwwcrisponlinenethometabid35defaulta5px
httpwwwreefba5e0rg

