3i7 Sir HUGH Low, whose various Gardens in Perak were-supplied mainly with plants from the Botanic Gardens in Singapore attempted to develop agriculture in Perak, but his work was practically abandoned after he left the country and little was done for Agriculture in the Federated Malay States except by the Colonial Gardens, till the present year, and indeed at present the Malay States are still utilizing the resources of the Colonial Gardens.

It can thus be seen what a large debt the agriculturists of the Malay States owe to the Botanic Gardens of Singapore and Penang for the work done for the last thirty years. Debts are easily f r« gotten, and the names even of the founders of agriculture in the Peninsula are perhaps hardly known to the planters who are reaping the benefit of their labours, among whom should be remembered Christopher Smith, to whom we owe the Nutmegs and Cloves of Penang. A. J. MURTON, the introducer of Para rubber and Liberian Coffee, and many other useful plants, and N. Cantley, who opened up the Economic Gardens in Singapore, whence so many thousands of plants and seeds have since been distributed over the Malay Peninsula.

H. N. RIDLEY.

FORESTRY IN THE MALAY PENINSULA IN 1904. The following notes extracted from the annual report from the Forest Department for last year may be of interest to our readers. Under the heading " Natural Reproduction" Mr. BURN-MURDOCH writes : — In Selangor, Merbau seeded plentifully during the year and thousands of seedlings were observed ^ in the Ulu Langat district ; Penak also seeded well both here and in the Kwala Pilah district of Negri Sembilan. A few Gutta-percha seeds, (Palaquium oblongifolium) , were obtained from Mr. HARPER, some of whose coolies came across fruiting trees in the remote jungles. The natural regeneration of Palaquium is very good. The Dipterocarp family fruited well generally, especially in Negri Sembilan, and large quantities of Penak, (Balanocarpus), seed were collected. The following were noted to have fruited : — Balanocarpus maximus ... June to August. Kumus (Shorea ciliata) ... October. Meranti and Serayahs Shoreas of various species and Hopea ... July to August. S. Acuminata S. Oprosula 
