POLYCHAETOUS ANNELIDS FROM PHILIPPINE SEAS. 595
Family NEREIDAE.
The collection contained large numbers of heteronereis stages of Nereis. Since during this phase the bodily changes are such as to obscure specific characters I have relied almost entirely in determining species on the characters of the jaws and paragnaths. These determinations must therefore be regarded as provisional.
Genus NEREIS Linnaeus.
NEREIS MASOLOCENSIS Grube.
Nereis masolocensis GRUBE, 1878, p. 75, pi. 5, fig. 4.
The Albatross specimens corresponded exactly with these in respect to tooth structure. Grube states that 22 anterior somites are marked with a brown stripe on either side. In these not more than 17 or 18 were so marked. A prominent feature is a brown band across the entire dorsal surface of the second setigerous somite.
Collected at Bongao; Varadero Harbor, Mindoro; Subic; Tava Island ; San Miguel Harbor ; Varadero Bay, Mindoro ; " Electric light, July 20, 1908" station D5403, Capitancillo Island, between Leyte and Cebu, 182 fathoms, green mud bottom.
NEREIS PECTINIFERA Grube.
Nereis pectinifera GRUBE, 1878, p. 66, pi. 4, fig. 5 ; pi. 5, fig. 5. Collected at Labuan Blanda Island.
NEREIS TONGATABUENSIS Mclntosh.
Nereis tonffatabucnsis MCINTOSH, 1885, p. 212, pi. 34, figs. 7, 8, 9; pi. 16a, figs. 5. 6, 7.
Collected at Nasugbu Luzon.
NEREIS (PLATYNEREIS) INTEGER, new species.
An epitokous form, characterized by an enormous development of the prostomium, so that the antennae are thrown to the ventral surface, all that is visible from above being the enormous eyes and the shovel-shaped prostomium (figs. 1 and 2).
Male. The prostomium rounded, its margin entire, the portion anterior to the eyes being very thin and translucent. In some individuals the palms may be seen through this translucent region. The anterior eyes are the larger, and they are situated on the latero-ventral portion of the head.
The dorsal tentacular cirrus (lost in the specimen figured) extended in other specimens to the eighth somite. The median cirri(fig. 1) are much shorter.
On the ventral surface (fig. 2) appear the flattened antennae, which normally hang at right angles to the prostomium, but are

