NEW PHILIPPINE FIDDLER-CRAB.
93
defined, outer one most prominent, a well-marked elongated depression between them.
Fingers rather slender, strongly flattened, minutely granular; both have a longitudinal groove on the external surface, but that in the fixed finger is the deeper ; fixed finger tapering, nearly straight, hooked at the top, smooth on lower margin and denticulate on inner margin; movable finger slightly arcuate, bearing 2 strong spines on inner margin, one at the tip and the other about one-fourth of the length of the inner margin from it; most individuals also have a strong denticle on the inner margins of each of the fingers about one-third of the distance from the proximal end.
Merus of last pair of legs somewhat foliaceous.
Color of living male.
— Dorsal surface of carapace, dark brown (65)' (almost black) with a transverse yellowish-white (141) band back of the front and sometimes another spot of the same color in the center of the back; eye-stalks light brown (137).
Large chela with fingers and inside of palm white, outside of palm whitish or green above (341) and fuscous (102) below.
Other walking legs gray (222) ; back of merus of last pair of legs white; abdomen bluish (402).
The above description was taken from 69 males and 8 females, collected May 22, 1911, at an estuary three blocks south of the Philippine Medical School, Manila, P. I. The 10 largest males gave the following average measurements: Length of carapace, 1464 mm; breadth of carapace, 2440; length of chela 403.
This species closely resembles U. diissumieri ( Milne-eedwardsbut can be distinguished from it by the constant presence of a tooth on the inner margin of the movable finger near the tip, by the well-marked lines bounding lateral borders of the dorsal surface, and by the less salient character of the 2 oblique ridges on the inner surface of the palm.
Miss M. J. Rathbun has kindly compared two specimens of this species with specimens of 13 narrow-fronted species from the Indo-pacific region in the United States National Museum.
She reports that U. rathhunse is most nearly related to U. urvillei (Milne-edwards) and makes the following observations:
Shape of carapace much as in U. urvillei.
The orbital margin is a little more oblique.
Frontal furrow longer, not triangular and sharp pointed at the extremity as in urvillei, but slightly spatulate.
The accessory line of granules above the lower margin of the orbit is much shorter, occupying
The numbers following colors refer to Klincksieck, P, et Valette, T. Code des couleurs.
Paris (1908).
For references, see Alcock, Jour.
Asiat.
Soc.
Bengal (1900), 69, 362.
