194 The Philippine Journal of Science 191« 1. PARASHOREA PLICATA Brandis. Luzon: Nueva Ecija, Bulacan, Rizal, Laguna, Tayabas, Camarines Albay, Sorsogon. Polillo. Catanduanes. Masbate. Samar Leyte Cebu. Negros. Panay, Capiz. Biliran. Mindanao: Surigao, Agusan Davao, Zamboanga. This is one of the most abundant and widely distributed species in the regions of even rainfall. 2. PARASHOREA WARBURGII Brandis in Journ. Linn. Soc. Bot. 31 (1895) 10, Foxw. in Leafl. Phil. Bot. 6 (1913) 1954, Mindanao: Davao and Agusan. 7. ISOPTERA Scheffer 1. ISOPTERA BORNEENSIS Scheffer. Plate I. This species was collected in fruit May 26, 1914, by Ranger Oliveros, in the Zamboanga Peninsula, Mindanao, For. Bur. 23829 and 2S8S9 It was also collected, in the same locality, two months later by Rangers Acuna and Belen For. Bur. 22683. This is the first time that this genus h as been reported from the Philippines. The specimens seem to match very well material collected in Borneo. The species is also known from the Malay Peninsula and Bangka.  8. BALANOCARPUS Beddome This genus ii distinct by reason of its calyx-lobes, which are pointed and shorter than the fruit. The trees of this genus are of large size and have very hard wood which is a fine grade of yacal. Sixteen species are known, mainly from the Malay Peninsula and Borneo. Key to the Philippine species of Balanocarpus. Calyx wings only about one-half as long as the frit; leaves narrowly poblong Calyx-wings nearly as long as fruit; leaves lanceolate. 2. B. brachyptera. 1. BALANOCARPUS CAGAYANENSIS sp. nov. Plate II. Arbor magna. Foliis chartaceis, oblongis, acuminatis, basi cuneatis, rotundatis admodum leviter inaequilateralibus 7 ad 13 cm longis, 2 ad 4 cm latis. Nervis secundariis 10 ad 12, tertiariis approximate, parallel. Calycis segmentis quam fructibus duplo brevionbus. A large tree. Leaves oblong, acuminate, faintly cuneate, slightly rounded, or slightly inequilateral at the base, 7 to 13 cm irTf Vo 4 Cm WidG ' maFgin Slightly inrolled -Secondary nerves 10 to 12 pairs, with occasional intermediate short veins Ter tiary veins approximate, mostly parallel. Domatia in axils of secondary veins. Glabrous above and almost glabrous beneath, occasional scattered hairs. Flower clusters not distinctly unilateral, black or dark gray. Petals yellowish-brown in dried material about twice as long as sepals. Petals pale-sericeous on the outside, glabrous within. Stamens with filaments expanded
