7 HARDWICKIA BINATA. HOPEA ODORATA. 8 tinged with red ; slightly marked with three or four nerves ; length from one to three inches, and a little more than half of that in breadth. Corol one-petalled, contorted. Tube short, campanulate. Border of five, oblique, sublinear-oblong, spreading divisions, with their margins revolute, curled, and somewhat villous. Petioles round, smooth, about one-fourth, or one-third the length Filaments ten, about as long as the tube of the corol, and inserted by broad, conical, fleshy bases, into its bottom ; they are alternately larger and bifid. Anthers fifteen, two-lobed, with a subulate point from the apex of each, or as in Asarum, they may be said to adhere to the filaments below their apices. Germ above, ovate. Style straight, length of the stamina. Stigma of the leaves. Stipules small, cordate, caducous. Panicles terminal, and from the exterior axills, small, delicate, slender, and smooth in every part. Flowers scattered, slender, pedicelled, small. Bractes minute, caducous. Calyx none. Petals five, obovate, concave, spreading, somewhat hoary on the outside ; inside yellowish ; rather longer than the stamina. Filaments ten, alternately shorter, inserted round the base of the germ. Anthers incumbent, ovate, with an acute point between the lobes. Germ oblong. Style ascending. Stigma large, peltate. lanceolate, from two to three inches long, two-valved, simple. ip ture, closely inveloping a single seed, of the same shape and size ; outwardly covered with the permanent calyx ; two of the leaflets of which are now enlarged into two, linear-oblong, obtuse, tough, membranaceous, nervous wings, many times longer than the seeds. Legume OBSERVATIONS. striated lengthwise, opening at the apex. iS^^^ solitary in the apex of the legume, and there inserted, cuneate, furrowed : posterior edge thin, and somewhat membranaceous. A single tree, and the only one I have seen, grows in the garden of Mr. Dowdeswell near Calcutta, originally from Chittagong, where it is indigenous. Flowering time the month of March, when the air, to a considerable distance, is perfumed with the OBSERVATIONS. May This elegant tree is found indigenous on the mountains of the Coast of Coromandel, where it grows to a large size, and yields It differs from the first in having only two of the five leaflets of timber of an excellent quality for a variety of uses. the calyx increasing into wings, and from both, In having a mo-Some beautiful, thriving, young trees are in the Botanic Garden nopetalous corol, and only ten filaments, bearing fifteen anthers, at Calcutta, reared from seeds sent from the mountains of Coro-Mad 211-CARALLIA LUGIDA, 210. HOPEA ODORATA/ GENERIC CHARACTER. C^/j/:v beneath, five-leaved: two of them increasing with the capsule into wings. Corol one-petalled, contorted. Filaments ten, inserted on the tube of the corol, ahernately two-cleft ; Anthers fifteen. ip Seed solitary. DESCRIPTION. Trunk erect, four feet in circumference, and high in proportion. Carallie of the Telingas. GENERIC CHARACTER. Calyx six or seven-cleft, superior. Petals six or seven. Stigm three-lobed. Berry one-celled, one seeded. a DESCRIPTION. Leaves opposite, short-petioled, oval, pointed, serrulate, smooth, shining on both sides, from four to five inches long, and two or two and a half broad. Stipules Branches numerous, spreading in every direction, and adorned Umbellets axillary, small, rigid, few-flowered, generally three-cleft, with many drooping, and expanding bifarious branchlets, Ca/yx above, six or seven-parted, permanent ; divisions acute, covered with dark-brown smooth bark. Leaves alternate, short-petioled, bifarious, drooping, ovate, oblong, Petcds six or seven, orbicular, scalloped, waved, inserted into the divisions of the calyx by short claws. entire, waved, smooth, shining, deep green on both sides ; Filaments twelve or fourteen, length of the corol, inserted into the on the under side there is often a pretty large, single gland in the axill of each of the larger veins. Stipules none. Panicles terminal, and from the exterior axills, drooping, composed of alternate, bifarious, secund, recurved, villous, ramifications, of numerous, small, pale yellow, delightfully fragrant flowers. Bractes cordate, acute, villous, caducous. Calyx beneath, five-leaved : leqfiets unequal, ovate, villous, permanent: the two largest increasing into two large, oblong, obtuse membranaceous wings, by the time the capsule is full grown, * Hopea tinctoria of Linnaeus is now referred to the genus of Symplocos. Linn, spec* plant, edit. Willdenow, 3. p. 1436. calyx. Anthers oblong, erect. Germ beneath, a:lobuIar. Style length of the filaments. Stigma three-lobed. Berry globular, smooth, pulpy, size of a large pea, one-celled, crowned with the very entire calyx. Seed one, rarely two, reniform. OBSERVATIONS. A small handsome ever-green tree, a native of the lower region of the Circar mountains. Flowering time March and April.
