20 BOURNS AND WORCESTER: PRELIMINARY NOTES.
Female like that of D. sibutense, but with the throat, upper breast and sides of face light ashy grey, uniformly washed with yellow.
The plate in Ibis seems to show a faint orange mark on the back of the female of D. sibutense, though no such marking is described in the text.
If this is the case the female of D. sibutense differs from that of every other Philippine representative of the genus.
A male from Sulu measures 3.
50 inches in length.
Culmen, 53.
Wing, 204.
Tail, 97.
Tarsus, 53.
Two females from the same locality measure 331 in length.
Culmen, 50.
Wing, 198.
Tail, 97.
Tarsus.
48.
Habitat: Sulu, Tawi Tawi ().
Weave only females fromtawi Tawi and cannot be quite sure of the identification.
21.
Prionochilus aeruginosus sp. nov.
Adult male in poor plumage.
Upper surface light rusty brown, washed with olive yellow on rump, upper tail coverts, outer webs of secondaries and tail feathers.
Ear coverts and sides of neck lighter than crown.
Lores, like side of head, bordered above and below by narrow, creamy white stripes reaching to eye.
A creamy white malar stripe is separated from these and from the throat by light brown stripes of about the same width.
Throat white.
All the feathers with broad brown shaft markings extending to their tips give the breast a strongly striped appearance.
Stripes become less sharply defined on the flanks and disappear almost entirely on the abdomen.
Under tail-coverts creamy white with dark ill-defined brown spots.
Under wing-coverts and axillaries creamy white.
Inner webs of quills ashy grey, outer webs and tips blackish brown.
Female like the male but with less olive yellow above.
Young like female but lacking the distinct markings on the under surface.
Measurements from three males: Length, 425 inches.
Culmen, 45.
Wing, 260.
Tail, 142.
Tarsus, 57.
A female measures 400 in length.
Culmen, 53.
Wing, 244.
Tail, 128.
Tarsus, 53.
Habitat: Cebu, Mindanao.
22.
Prionochilus bicolor sp. nov.
Adult male: Entire upper surface deep black, with faint metallic blue gloss.
Entire under surface, including under wing coverts, axillaries and inner webs of quills, white.
Bases of feathers of breast, flanks and abdomen slaty black.
Bill, legs and feet black.
Iris red.
Length, 3 25 inches.
Wing, 198.
Tail, 96.
Culmen, 42.
Tar sus, 56.
Habitat: Mindanao.
Found in the hills back of Ayala, near Zamboanga.
