FARMING THE SEA
profitable, pond managers seek supplies from fishermen who catch the fry in other areas. Thus a special fishery has grown up to supply the valli.
Mullet (Mugil sp) is the most important species in these ponds; eels, sea bass (Morone labrax), and other species are also raised to a lesser extent.
The annual mean production of about seventy valli in the Italian Adriatic was 3,000 tons in the 1950's, with an average of about 125 to 130 pounds of fish per acre.
The principal defect of the valli culture is that the system depends largely on the capture of small fish entering the ponds with the tides, or in more recent years on the somewhat more reliable but still chancy capture of fry in the ocean. Thus the valli farmer is at the mercy of the vagaries of natural fluctuations in abundance of the fry.
The shrimp is one of the marine animals most suitable for farming. It has a high market value and it grows rapidly on materials very near the bottom of the food pyramid. Shrimp are cheerfully indiscriminate eaters. They nibble on algae and bacteria; they take quantities of mud, apparently deriving sustenance directly from it as well as from a multitude of small animals and plants that it contains, including worms, small crustaceans and mollusks, larval fishes, diatoms, bacteria, and algae. Shrimp are scavengers and cannibals.
Shrimp culture is important in the Philippines. Here the young of the shrimp called "sugpo" Penaeus monodon, are caught as they appear in shallow water near shore and are transported to specially prepared ponds, where they are fed and carefully protected from predators until they become big enough to sell.
The capture of the sugar is the weak link in the culture chain. The Philippine fisherman pursues them with unlikely tools, including clumps of weed called "sons-sons" white porcelain dishes, and earthenware jars. He takes advantage of the fact that the sugar likes to cling to sticks, seaweed, or other material floating in the water. He sets out bon-bon lures consisting of bundles of twigs or grass attached to lines, and ties these to poles set into the bottom in shallow, brackish water where the tide runs. Tiny plankton creatures such as copepods and worms attach themselves to the weeds, and they, along with the shelter the weeds offer, attract the shrimp to the lures. Sculling among the lures in a small dugout, the fisherman visits them two or three times a day, shaking the little shrimp from the bundles of grass into a fine-meshed dip net and transferring them to his porcelain dish; the dark bodies of the young sugpo show up plainly against the brilliant white of the porcelain. The little shrimp are dumped into an earthenware jar, whose porous sides
79]

