1893.] G. King — Materials for a Flora of the Malayan Peninsula. 127 But, as I have stated in a note under H. micrantha, H. Dryobalanoides appears to be a composite species; moreover, its author nowhere describes its flowers, For these reasons I think it ought to be suppressed as a species. 7. Retinodendron, Korthals. Resinous trees, with the leaves, inflorescence, and flowers of Vatica, Ripe fruit globular, crowned by the persistent style, 1-celled, 1-seeded, the pericarp coriaceous, indehiscent. Calyx of ripe fruit slightly ac-crescent, the pieces oblong, nearly equal, and quite free from, and usually shorter than, the fruit (longer in. R. Kunstleri). Isauxis (sub-genus of Vateria) W and A. Distrib. Malaya and British India. Species about 10, Isauxis was established by Wight and Arnot as a sub-genus of Vateria, Linn. to receive the three species Vateria lanceaefolia, Roxb., V. Roxburghiana, Wight and V. Ceylonica, Wight (Stemoporus Wightii, Thw.) and its characters were, "Segments of the calyx ovate, acute, enlarging in fruit; petals falcate and about three times the length of the calyx: stamens 15 with oblong anther cells; style short; stigma clavate, 3—6 toothed: panicles axillary, shorter than the leaves." The other section of Vateria suggested by Wight was Eu-Vateria (the Vateria of Linnasus and of which V. indica, L. is the type) and of this the characters are, . Calyx-segments obtuse, scarcely enlarging in fruit: petals oval, scarcely longer than the calyx: stamens 40 or 50 with linear anther-cells: style elongated: stigma acute; panicle large and terminal. Korthals, evidently overlooking Wight's Illustrations, pub-lished (Yerh. Nat. G-esch. Ned. Ind. p. 56) his genus Retinodendron to cover one of the very plants {viz., Vateria lanceaefolia, Eoxb.) for which Wight and Arnot founded the sub-genus Isauxis; and to this Betinodendron Korthals added his own Malayan species R. Rassah and R. paucifiorum. Although Isauxis may have the priority as a sub-genus (Wight.s Illustrations were published in 1840, and Korthals. book, just quoted, bears the date 1839 — 1842), Retinodendron takes prece-dence as a genus. The flowers of Retinodendron are exactly those of all the species of Vatica (except the anomalous V. scaphula, Roxb.) inasmuch as the segments of the calyx are slightly imbricate when the bud is very young, becoming valvate as the bud advances in age; the petals are much longer than broad, their apices are not inflexed in aestivation, and they are not spreading when expanded. The fruit itself is also practically that of Vatica; bat the fruiting-calyx is different, for its lobes are invariably free from the beginning, they are pretty nearly equal to each other, but (although slightly accrescent) they are in most cases shorter than the fruit. As regards its calyx, Retinodendron is closely allied to Vateria, but it differs from Vateria in its flowers; for in Vateria the stamens are numerous (40 to 50), the petals are scarcely longer than the segments of the calyx and are spreading; more-over the inflorescence is longer in Vateria than in Retinodendron, and it is terminal. In short, Retinodendron has the flowers of Vatica and the fruit of Vateria. Dr. Burck forms Retinodendron and Isauxis into sections of the genus Vatica, giving however characters to the section Isauxis which form no part of Wight.s original characters of it as a sub-section of Vateria. In Dr. Burck.s section Isauxis, "the calyx-lobes are all accrescent, sub-equal to the fruit, or much longer." J. ii. 17 
