NUMBER 367
41
Eleotrididae
The sleepers are a speciose family of small-to moderate-sized (maximum about 500 mm TL) fishes occurring circumglobally in habitats ranging from freshwater to coral reefs. The Indo-pacific genera are in need of revision. Many marine Indo-pacific genera treated as eleotridids in the literature belong in the family Gobiidae. According to Larson and Hoese (1980), there are only four genera of eleotridids confined to coral reefs in the Indo-pacific (Allomicrodesmus, Xerusthmus, Burma, and one undescribed); the other Indo-Pacific genera inhabit fresh and brackish water.
Allomicrodesmus was described from a single specimen from the Marshall Islands and placed in the Microdesmidae by Schultz (1966a). D.F. Hoese (in litt) believes Allomicrodesmus is a highly aberrant eleotridid, and states that he has a specimen from the northern Great Barrier Reef. I know of no other records for this genus.
Calumia contains two reef-dwelling species (Larson and Hoese, 1980): C. godeffroyi, which ranges from the east coast of Africa to Tahiti, and C. profunda, known from the Philippines, Moluccas (Ceram), western Admiralty, New Britain, Solomon, and New Hebrides islands (Larson and Hoese, 1980; E.A. Lachner, unpublished data); hence, absent from the Pacific Plate nonmarginally.
The widely distributed Indo-west Pacific genus Butis, which occurs in rivers and estuaries, and mangroves, is known from the Pacific Plate nonmarginally only at Ponape (USNM collections), which provides evidence for operation of the Caroline Islands conduit. See also "Addendum"
Elopidae
(including Megalopidae)
The tarpons and ladyfishes comprise three genera of free-swimming fishes with planktonic young that enter and develop in shallow coastal areas and estuaries. The adults may ascend rivers. Elops is, perhaps, circumglobally distributed, but has not been reported from the easternmost islands on the Pacific Plate. Elops contains three to eight species (a revision is needed) of moderate size (to about 1 m SL). Two of these occur nonmarginally on the Pacific Plate. Tarpon is monotypic, very large (to about 24 m TL and 160 kg), and restricted to the warm waters of the Atlantic, both sides. Tarpon reaches the Pacific terminus of the Panama Canal from the Atlantic, but apparently has not established a breeding population in the eastern Pacific. Megalops is monotypic, of moderate size (to about 550 mm TL), and ranges from the east coast of Africa to the Society Islands. Interestingly, Megalops has not been reported from the Eastern Caroline, Marshall, Gilbert, Ellice, Line, Tuamotu, or Hawaiian islands. Possibly, Megalops occurs only as a straggler on the Pacific Plate, although Randall (in litt) does not believe it to be a straggler in the Society Islands. More records from Plate localities, including the occurrence of young, would be desirable.
Emmelichthyidae
The emmelichthyidae comprise three genera and ten species of small (to about 500 mm SL), moderately deep-dwelling fishes (Heemstra and Randall, 1977), which, as adults, are supra-benthic at depths of 100-400 m. The only records for the Pacific Plate are either marginal or for the Hawaiian Islands, where three species occur (Figure 19), Hawaiian exceptions. Of the three Hawaiian species, one also occurs at Japan, Australia, and the Philippines (Randall, in press b), one also at Easter Island and Guam (Myers and Shepard, 1981), and which may be limited to the Pacific Plate and its margins, and the third is either an Hawaiian endemic or also occurs at Okinawa (Heemstra and Randall, 1977). Because of the difficulty of collecting emmelichthyids, their occurrences as Hawaiian exceptions may be a collecting artifact. The family seems to be restricted somewhat to subtropical and temperate areas in the Indo-west Pacific, which may explain its general absence from the Pacific Plate islands. Nonmarginal Pacific Plate records are worth reporting.

