10 SPECIES BLANCOANAE
tion through three bulky and unwieldy folio volumes without adding a single item to our knowledge of the Philippine flora. Unfortunately page references to the first and second editions are omitted.
In consideration of the date at which it was printed, it is indeed a curious publication. The third edition follows the
em
at least half a century.
from
from
himself eliminated from
name
for the one given in the second. The only praise that can be given in this glorified edition of Blanco's Flora de Filipinas is that the Latin translations made Blanco's descriptions more available to botanists generally; yet nearly forty years before, Walpers  had published Latin translations of about 180 of Blanco's diagnoses of new species, which is the part of Blanco's work of most general interest to taxonomists.
Two editions were issued, one the "edition de luzon" the other the "edition economic" The cheap edition differs from the edition de luxe in that it is printed on less expensive paper, and the plates are not colored. The plates differ further from those of the edition de luxe in that they are numbered. The cheap edition was sold at 125 dollars per fascicle in the Philippines, and 175 dollars outside of the Philippines; while the edition de luxe was sold at 225 dollars and 250 dollars respectively, the prices in Mexican silver. Each fascicle was advertised to consist of sixteen pages of text and six plates. The cheap edition was to consist of numbered volumes; but the edition de luxe was to be numbered, and the edition limited to 500 copies. The plan of numbering the volumes was apparently
abandoned.
means
a rare one; but the cheap edition is exceedingly rare. I have seen but a single incomplete copy of the latter, consisting of a complete set of the text and about 140 plates. This copy is
fourth volume
Manila
Filipinas is by far the most important part of the work. It consists of three separately paged parts, of which the third, the Novissima Appendix. is the. mili nnp nf rpnl nino
'Linnaea 16 (1842) Litt-bericht 1-68.

