134 G. King — Materials for a Flora of the Malayan Peninsula. [No. 2, cribed here, that I refer it without any hesitation to this genus. M. Curtis' leaf specimens of this have, I understand, received from M. Heim the MSS. name, Pierrea penangiana. The genus Pierrea has been founded by M. Heim (Bull. Soc. Linn. Paris, 1891, p. 958, and . Recherches sur les Dipterocarpacees ., p. 78) on specimens of which the author has not (as he admits) had the advantage of seeing the flowers. The vernacular name of this tree in Penang is Chengah, and its timber is, according to Mr. Curtis, very valuable. In the State of Perak, on the mainland almost opposite Penang, another species (B. Wrayi) receives a similar vernacular name. 6. Balanocarpus Wrayi, King n. sp. A tree: young branches slender, dark-coloured, glabrous. Leaves coriaceous, narrowly oblong, gradually tapering from the middle to the acute apex; the base sub-cuneate or rounded, slightly unequal-sided: both surfaces glabrous; main nerves 7 or 8 pairs, curved, oblique, slightly prominent beneath: length 2.25 to 2.75 in., breadth .75 in.; petiole .25 in., transversely wrinkled. Panicles axillary and terminal, nearly as long as the leaves. Flowers unknown. Fruit ovoid, much apiculate, glabrous, .6 in. long, covered in its lower two-thirds by the persistent sub-accrescent glabrous calyx; outer two sepals smaller than the others, elliptic, obtuse, the inner three rotund, all thickened and concave. Perak: Wray, No. 813. Collected only once and without flowers. According to Mr. Wray the timber of this tree is valuable, and its vernacular name is Chingi, or Chingal. I refer this (in spite of the absence of flowers) to Balanocar-pus, the other species of which it so closely resembles. 7. Balanocarpus Hemsletanus, King, n. sp. A tree 50 to 100 feet high: young branches rather stout, rough, minutely lenticellate, pube-rulous. Leaves coriaceous, elliptic-oblong, sometimes slightly obovate, shortly and abruptly acuminate, slightly narrowed to the rounded or sub-emarginate base: upper surface glabrous except the minutely tomentose midrib; the lower scabrid from minute rigid stellately hairy tubercles which are most abundant on the stout midrib and nerves: main nerves 18 to 20 pairs, oblique, parallel, very prominent on the lower, obsolete on the upper, surface; length 7 to 12 in., breadth 3.25 to 5 in.; petiole .6 to .9 in. scabrid, pubescent. Panicles axillary or terminal, 3 to 7 in. long, scurfy stellate-pubescent; flowers rather crowded on the lateral branchlets, .5 in. long, Sepals sub-equal, broadly ovate, acute, yellowish-tomentose externally, glabrous internally. Petals twice as long as the sepals, or longer, elliptic, oblique, obtuse, glabrous except a broad adpressed-sericeous band externally. Stamens 15, in three rows: the filaments dilated, unequal, longer than 
