( 2i 9 ) ISOPTERA BORNEENSIS. The Dipterocarpous tree, Isoptera borneensis, is one of the sources of oil nuts producing an important oil known generally as Minyak Tenkawang. We are indebted to Mr. John ALLAN, of Warrington, for an account of the habits of the tree and the methods of preparing the oil in Pontianak, where he has been lately travelling to study the origin of the oil seeds of the East.

Isoptera borneensis (Dipterocarpeae), is a native of Borneo. Bangka, and also of Pahang, Muar, and Perak, where I have occasionally met with it. It is a tree of very large size, from ioo to 150 feet when full grown, but unlike other Dipterocarpous trees it flowers and fruits often when quite small, so that one can gather the flowers from the ground. The leaves are bright green, oblong, acuminate, 4 inches long and two across, strongly ribbed, thin in texture, and glabrous. The flowers in short racemes small and yellow, are sweetly scented of vanilla, and in Pontianak. Mr. Allan says that the women are fond of gathering them, when the tree is small enough to reach, to put in their hair. The flowers are produced in October, the fruits in January. The tree usually grows on river banks in wet silt mud in which one sinks half-way up the leg. I have, however, seen it in dryer spots. The fruit is half globular, something like an acorn, about half-an-inch long and wide with five rounded ovate wings spreading out flat, reddish, and strongly ribbed, three of the wings are f-inch long, the other two hardly half as big. The fruit falls into the streams or rivers near which the tree grows and drifts down. The natives of Pontianak catch them in nets, or gather them in bends of the river, where there is a block from a fallen tree or projecting root. The nuts are then dried in the sun and pounded in a rice pounder, which here is trough or boat shaped. The pounded mass is then boiled in water and the fat skimmed off, strained through a simple bamboo strainer and poured into joints of bamboo. The fat is hard and waxlike. It is used for cooking, imparting a peculiar flavour to the meat, and is also used for greasing the copper pans in sngo and tapioca making, when pearl or bullet sago or tapioca is being made. The Minyak Tenkawang is also used for soap making in Europe, but it is a hard fat and requires much treatment. The tree is called Sinkawang in Muar, and Larat Api in Pahang. Burck gives its name as Tengkawang Trendah in Banka. Mr. Allan states that it grows in clusters, many trees together, which is not usual in Dipterocarpeae, though it is characteristic of Dryobalanops Camphor the Camphor tree. — Ed.
