PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES
Vol.
50, No.
1, pp. 1-20, 5 figs, 4 tables.

October 8, 1997
SPECIES OF THE GUENTHERI GROUP OF PLATYMANTIS (AMPHIBIA: RANIDAE) FROM THE PHILIPPINES, WITH
DESCRIPTIONS OF FOUR NEW SPECIES
'9ni
Department of Herpetology, California Academy of Sciences, San Franci
£
er C. Brown
scop, California 941 18
H?
Angel C. Alcala
Commission on Higher Education, DAP Building, San Miguel Ave, Ortigas Center,
Pasig City, Philippines
Arvin C. Diesmos
College of Arts and Sciences, University of the Philippines, Los Barios, Laguna, Philippines
and
Ely Alcala
Center for Tropical Conservation Studies, Silliman University, Dumaguete City 6200, Philippines
Species of the guentheri group of Philippine Platymantis are revised.
Platymantis guentheri is rediagnosed.
Four species, previously confused with guentheri, (P. rabori, P. negrosensis, P. luzonensis, and P. banahao) are described.
Received March 14, 1996.
Accepted May 30, 1996.
In a recent paper (Brown et al. 1997) three species-groups (assemblages) of Philippine Platymantis were diagnosed, based on different combinations of digital characters.
In the same paper, species of the hazelae group were revised.
For convenience those diagnoses are briefly restated.
The hazelae Group.
This Group is diagnosed by the following combination of characters: (1) terminal phalanx a wide "T; (2) disks of fingers, except first, broadly dilated; (3) first finger much shorter than second, not reaching beyond midpoint between subarticular tubercle
and disk; (4) digits proximal to disks much broader than deep, the result of wide dermal flanges; (5) subarticular tubercles large, round, and only moderately protruding; (6) toe disks smaller than finger disks.
The guentheri Group.
— ( 1 ) terminal phalanx a moderate to wide "T; (2) disks of fingers, except first; moderately to broadly dilated; (3) first finger shorter than second, reaching as far as base of disk for some species; (4) digits proximal to disks about as deep as broad, the result of narrow, dermal flanges; (5) subarticular tuber-Pi
