PHILIPPINE ISLANDS. 85 Bataan, etc.). But it is not brought to market in large quantities, as there is not much of a demand for it. S. Vidal.."

" Branches scattered. Leaves alternate, ovate, cradle-shaped, serrated. Can not describe flowers or fruit for want of data. R. Garcia."

TANGUILE. Shorea Talura, Roxb. (Dipterocarpus polyspermus, Blanco.) Fam. Dipterocarpeae

SYNONYMS— Tanguile, Taugile, Tangili, Tagalog. WHERE FOUND— Islands of Luzon and Mindoro. DESCRIPTION— Second Group.

"Tree of First Order. Color — Brownish red. Texture. — Very fine with large numerous pores; breaks as if brittle. Is plentiful in most of the islands, especially in the center and south of Luzon. It is used in the construction of baucas and is also sawed into lumber. Elasticity 0.004 m.; weight at which it broke 29.676 kilograms; weight in the air 7.59 grams; specific gravity 0.603. S. Vidal.."

"Leaves alternate, ovate, elongated, membranous and smooth. Petioles very short. Flowers small, terminal growing in panicled racemes. Peduncles very short. Calyx free, in five ovate parts, the two inside covered with the three outside, very long at maturity, especially the three. Corolla, hairy, thrice longer than the calyx, in five sharp parts and hairy on the outside. Stamens less than twenty, inserted between the ovary and the base of the corolla and shorter than the petals; some are inserted higher up than others. Anthers somewhat fourangled, terminating in a long hair. Ovary, globular, with angles and situated within the flower. Style awl-shaped. Stigma simple. Berry, two compartments; each contains seed. Tree of the First Order. — Canoes are made of it, and it is well known in Pampauga and Balanga. The calyx remains permanently free, even at maturity, and is never adherent. Unlike most of its congeners the fruit has several seeds. Blanco, p. 312., 2d ed." "Tree of the First Order.— Found in the Philippine Islands, especially in Luzon. Color. — Light brown red. Texture. — Very fine with large and numerous pores; breaks as if brittle. It is used for canoes and sawed into lumber. Salvador Ceron, p. 308." 
