xviiij AFFLUENTS OF THE BINTULU neck, which it moved continuously, was also long and very slender ; indeed, on account of its neck, I at first thought the bird had a snake in its bill. My men said it was an aquatic bird, that it dived, and had webbed feet. Although I was most anxious to secure it, this time the coveted prize escaped me. Along the banks of the river cleared of forest minuangs (pctomeles Sumatmna) are frequent — a tree I have already mentioned which belongs to the " tapang " group ; that is, those on which honey bees build their nests. One isolated specimen I could see from the boat showed long brown spikes hanging from the ends of the smaller branches, and on getting near it I perceived from the fragments on the ground that it bore female flowers. I was, therefore, anxious to secure specimens, as the plant was not well known to botanists ; but when, after fully an hour's labour, we had felled the tree, I discovered to my regret that the flowers were over, and utterly useless for scientific investigation. On the morning of the 30th, in order to save time, I had the rice for the day cooked before starting. The most notable plant I saw was a Dipterocarp (P.B., No. 3,755), a splendid tree, literally covered with large flowers of a light yellow colour, giving off a sweet vanilla odour. The Daun halik angtn, the fine Clerodendron discolor which I had observed on the Sarawak river, was very common here, as elsewhere on the banks of the Bintulu. The river flowed through a plain from which the forest had been cleared for some hundreds of yards from the waterside. These were the fields of the Labbang Mellanaos, whom we found at work on them, preparing to plant rice. Some were engaged in burning the jungle, and this being of secondary growth contained many bamboos, which exploded when on fire with reports like musket shots. When the ground is thus cleared, a man with a long pointed pole makes holes in the soil, in which a woman, who follows close behind him, throws a few grains of rice. It rained nearly the whole day. We slept at Pandan, a small village at the mouth of a stream which bears the same name, on the right bank of the Bintulu. The village consisted of ten or twelve houses, and was inhabited by Bintulu Mellanaos intermingled with Pennans. The Pandan can be ascended in boats for six days, and it is on the upper portion of its course, or " ulu," as the Malays say, that the Pennans are numerous. It is there, also, that the kajatau (probably Eugeissonia utilis), which produces a good quality of sago, the principal food of the natives, is said to be plentiful. The Pandan at a certain place divides into two branches : the principal one appears to trend eastwards; the other, called the Bigno, turns, it is said, in an opposite direction, and is stated to be navigable for four days. I was afterwards told that it issues from a lake in which sea fish live, and whose waters during the dry season are salt. 285
