278 NOTES ON DIPTEEOCAEPS. the characteristic fruits it is impossible to make sure of this: it was collected in 1894: in 1892 Mr. Ridley got the species on Bukit Mandai (No, 8943) and also at Changi (Nos. 4447! and 4448!), since which dates clearing has been extensive; and the tree has not been recognised in recent years outside the Botanic Gardens. In the Gardens there are several individuals. The tallest is in area N, tree No. 79'5 : the second tree No. 815 in area V, and others are in area U and V. It is not a tree of lowlying ground ; and its large fruits sink at once in water. Such distribution as they get must be by being rolled along the floor of the forest or (and this is the usual distribution of many forest trees of the second rank) by transport through small distances by animals seeking food. Tree No. 79'5 in the Botanic Gardens is about 10'0 feet high. Its trunk is 62 in. in circumference at breast height: the bark is medium grey. The spread of the branches is about 30 feet from the trunk, the lower 60 feet of which are straight smooth and branchless. The flower drawn above was produced by tree 815 in January 1921; and fruits were not ripe until the following November. They fell very deliberately through three months or more. Fig. 8. A half ripe fruit of Vatica moluccana, Burck, showing the •development of the reflexed calyx. The fruit is figured to illustrate a stage in the series of species connecting Vatica Wallichii with Vaticas of the section Eetinodendron. The fruit, of Vatica Ridleyana, if elongated, is always turned to one side as drawn; but tree No. 815 produces longer fruits by % in. than tree No. 796, in which the apex is nearly straight. The leaves have glandular patches just as those of Vatica Wallichii. These glands are slightly concave, and carry brown hairs. The spongy parenchyma of the lower surface of the leaf gives place over their area to something denser. No excretion has been observed to occur on them; but probably there is one. Pachynocarpus umbonatus, by the view taken here, is the tree of Borneo sent by Barber to Sir William Hooker at Kew, — certainly the fruiting part of the specimens, but not quite so certainly the flowering part. These flowering branches show thinner leaves with less prominent veins than any peninsular specimen which we ascribe to the genus. And as leaves so thin seem to be within the range of variation of the leaves of Vatica Wallichii; and as Jour. Straits Branch 
