488 SMITH.
LAKE LANAO ASL) VICINITY.
All of the work in the region of Zamboanga and the Sulu Archipelago which it was at all feasible to undertake at this time having been completed, we left Zamboanga, Jstovember 6, for Overton. As our vessel kept close to the coast, I was able to make some notes which throw considerable light on the geologic changes now going on. The west coast of Mindanao has verj' certainly risen in comparatively recent times. Near Point Blanca on the northwestern part of the coast I saw a fine example of a raised delta, the elevation amounting to at least 10 meters. The characteristic structure of the delta was clearly revealed by the extensive marine erosion which had taken place. There were also many fine terraces shown along this coast and their existence supports the other evidence.
The weather compelled us to run into a little cove near the point just off Dapitan. Of all the many inlets along the coasts of these islands I believe this to be one of the prettiest and most secure. No sign of an entrance can be seen at less than a kilometer away and certainly this point would be too "obscure to pick up at night. We went through a channel not over 45 meters wide between walls which in the darkness I took to be limestone, and emerged into a splendid basin with water as clear and placid as a mountain lake and with high walls on nearly all sides.
By noon of the next day we anchored off the little stone fort at the entrance of Panguil Bay, which is in the extreme southwest corner of the much larger Bay of Iligan. The most conspicuous object at this place is Mount Malindang, an extinct volcano close to 2,700 meters in elevation lying to the west. Material from the slopes of this mountain is basaltic as I discovered by going up Panguil Bay in a hand in company Avith Lieutenant Lattamore, Philippines Constabulary, and a detachment of soldiers, landing at several points to enable me to go far enough inland to examine the rocks, as there are no outcrops on the coast.
Mount Malindang is an old crater the rim of which is broken down on the side toward Misamis. It is for the most part covered with a luxuriant mantle of timber forest; the soil on its slopes is of a rich red and is undoubtedly very fertile.
A number of Visayan colonies exist on the west side of Panguil Bay, but 911 the country to the east is Moro.
We left this point on the morning of November 11 and reached Camp Overton at a little after noon. Mr. Ickis was to join me at this point, but as he was detained by quarantine. Lieutenant Caffery and I went forward over the military road to Camp Keithley (745 meters) where the climate is much cooler than in the coast towns.
There is very little coastal plain in the region of Cami3 Overton, the hills rising so abruptly that the road has to wind back and forth in order to make the ascent. Tlie first jart passes through raised coral reefs, in

