DELFINADO: PHILIPPINE BITING MIDGES 651
base, tibiae with narrow basal band; hind tibial comb with four spines, the one nearest the spur longest. Wing (pi. 9, fig. 1) with costa extending 063 (054-070, w-10) of wing length; macrotrichia long and dense on distal half of cell R 5  sparse on cells Mi and Ms. Wing pattern as figured; extreme tip of second radial cell included in a pale spot; narrow pale spot at wing base; two prominent, broad, transverse pale bands across wing, the first at level of crossvein r-m to tip of anal cell, and narrowly interrupted by dark stem of mediocubital fork, the second beginning on and including tip of second radial cell and extending to tip of cell M 4 ; lighter pale spot at margin of wing on cell M 2  absent on cells R 6 and Mi. Halter brownish. Spermathecae (pi. 13, fig. 10) two, equal, pyriform, each measuring 0040 by 0054 mm; only rudimentary spermatheca present, ring absent.
Male genitalia (pi. 14, fig. 4). Ninth sternum broad, with deep mesal excavation, the ventral membrane hairy; ninth tergum short and tapering, with long apicolateral processes, the apical margin between them with a deep, median notch. Basistyle short, mesal margin simple, only the dorsal roots developed; dististyle nearly straight, slender. Aedeagus with heavily sclerotized basal arch, width at base 07 times total length, anterior membrane covering about distal half of arch; distal stem short, the apex broadly rounded, unsclerotized. Parameres with main bodies joined at bases by a thin loop; knobbed base straight, with stout, short, divergent stem and pointed, bare tip.
Holotype. A female, Clark Air Base, Angeles, Pampanga, September 17, 1957, light trap, I. Balatbat. In the collection of the Division of Malaria, Philippine Department of Health.
Allotype. A male, same data as holotype (PDH).
Paratypes. Seven females, same data as holotype (3, PDH; 3, USNM; 1, BPBM); 1 female, Tala, Rizal, May 22, 1958, light trap, M. D. Delfinado (BMNH).
Plesiotypes. One female, same data as holotype (PDH); 1 female, CNHM-11, Dimanianga, Busuanga Island, Palawan, near sea level, H. Hoogstraal (CNHM).
Culicoides (Oecacta) perornatus, new species
The characteristic distal pale spot on cell R 5  the remarkably swollen third palpal segment with large, deep sensory pit, and the elongate-oval spermathecae with long, chitinized neck are the distinctive features of this species.
Female. Length about 16 mm, wing 10 mm. long. Eyes contiguous for the length of the diameter of 35 facets (pi. 12, fig. 9). Antennae missing. Palpal segments in proportion of 2037612337; third segment greatly swollen (pi. 11, fig. 11), 20 times as long as broad with a large, deep sensory pit at middle. Mandible teeth 10. Legs brown; knees with a narrow darker brown band, with adjacent yellowish band on front and middle tibiae; fore and mid femora banded; base and apex of hind tibia pale, tibial comb with four spines. Wing (pi. 9, fig. 2) with costa extending 063 of wing length; macrotrichia fairly abundant over distal half of
