1. Shorea. 1 18. DIPTEROCARPACEAE. Fam. 18. DIPTEROCARPACEAE. 1. Shorea, Roxb. Trees, containing resin, with alt. entire simple leaves. Stipules caducous, Fls. in axillary and terminal panicles, bracts often caducous sometimes 0. Calyx S-sepalons. Petals 5 contorted in bud, St. bypogynous, connective appendaged. Ovary 3-celled, cells 2-ovuled. Style subulate. Fruit a 1-seeded nut closely embraced by the bases of the greatly enlarged sepals. Cotyledons fleshy unequal, one embraced by the other, hypogeal in germination. 

1. S. robusta, Gaertn, Sarjom, K., S.; Sakua, Kharw ; The Sal tree. Throughout the area. In many of the deep valleys of Singbhum, Bonai and Gangpur it attains 12 ft. girth and 120 ft, high, the soil being a deep loam derived from the decomposition of gneissic ropks. On the hills of clay schist it is a stunted tree attaining 30-40 ft., and it occurs in a very stunted form on the top of Parasnath at 4,400 ft. elevation which is above the elevation it generally attains in the Himalayan region. Large trees are now very scarce in the other districts where the forests have been mostly ruined and the trees are mostly coppice shoots which frequently flower as mere bushes. Gamble records a tree in a sacred grove in the S. P. (at Talpahari) 10 1/2 ft. girth and 120 ft. high. Fl. March-April, in some years the flowering extends into May. Fr. June-July. Nearly or quite leafless in March. Stipules 1/4”-1/2” oblong, covering the young buds. The panicles arise direct from the old wood and on the new shoots, the flowers are unilateral on the branches." Petals with a twisted acumen, free with overlapping bases. Filaments very swollen below. Campbell says the best time for cutting is October, and that the timber is then much more durable. The logs should, of course, always be barked immediately after felling. The fuel and charcoal are excellent, and the latter is said by the Kols to be the best available for iron smelting. The seeds are eaten but are said not to be very wholesome. It was previously much tapped and destroyed for resin before the reservation of the forests. The resin (dunra, K.; sarjom lore, S) is used in medicine and for caulking. The leaf is the usual covering of the Kol cigarette (fikr). The seed should be sown as soon as ripe, but the earliest to fall are usually bad. The stalks of the cotyledons are very long, and if the primary shoot is injured or dies subsequent shoots arise from their axils. The first pair of foliage leaves are opposite. 

178
