12 BULLETIN 1057, U. S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. as the tree grows along the banks of this klong, the waters from which must inundate the surrounding land in the rainy season. It grew in company with Dipterocarpus alatus, Melia arborea, Salix sp., and other trees of which specimens have been collected but are as yet unidentified. The leaves of wild-growing Hydnocarpus anthelminthica are not as narrow as those of cultivated specimens, but are lanceolate instead of linear-lanceolate (PI. II). No mature fruits were found, but semiripe fruiting specimens were collected. The natives of Siam use the seeds of this species for the expression of an oil which they apply in cutaneous affections. It was stated by natives that the fruits are poisonous and also that fish feeding on the seeds of maikrabao are unpalatable. The narcotic properties of the seed are imparted to the fish, which, when eaten, produce nausea and vomiting. The seeds form an article of export to China, where they are known as "ta-f ung-chi." While in Hongkong the writer inquired about ta-fung-chi and found them on sale in native Chinese drug stores at $20 for 100 pounds. Since only about 32 per cent of the seed is kernel, the price is rather high. HYDNOCARPUS CASTANEA." While in search of Taraktogenos hurzii near the Siamese border but in the Burmese territory, the writer came across a species belonging either to Hydnocarpus or to Taraktogenos. It grew in a dense rain forest, on steep, densely wooded slopes, near the jungle village of Thinganyinon. Unfortunately, the tree was not in flower, but it had immature fruits, a comparison of which with those of Taraktogenos hurzii rendered doubtful its identity with that species. The time of flowering is in April, and the fruits ripen in July. The writer's visit was in December. Having known that Taraktogenos hurzii was said to occur in the Martaban Hills, the writer inquired, on reaching Moulmein on December 24, 1920, whether anyone had seen kalaw trees anywhere in the Martaban Hills. A Mr. Shwaloo, the son of a Burmese physician, stated that he knew where there were thousands of kalaw trees. Arrangements were made to explore the Martaban Hills, and a party, consisting of the writer, Mr. Shwaloo, a cook, and a boy, left for Martaban station and thence by rail for Paung. From Paung the party proceeded by bullock cart to Oktada, a small village at the foot of the Kalama Range. The same evening the writer followed the steep dry creek bed, strewn and lined with enormous bowlders of quartz rock, to the Mondo Range. In the crevices be- Hydnocarpus castanea Hook. f. and Thorns. (12, p. 197). Specimens collected by the writer are deposited in the United States National Herbarium : Rock No 744 U S N FT No? t.090,008 and 1,090,009. 
