ANIMAL PARASITES OF MAN. 207
effects of infections with intestinal worms upon the health of a population is that carried on by Dr. Shattuck of the Bureau of Health at Bilibid Prison during the time our own investigation was in progress, the results of the same examinations being used as far as practicable in both investigations.
These results have been placed at our disposal by Dr. Heiser, Director of Health, from the manuscript of his Annual Report for 1906-7, and are briefly as follows:
The annual death rate in the prison when it came in charge of the Bureau of Health was 238 per one thousand. The institution of general measures of sanitation reduced this rate to 75 per one thousand where it remained stationary, resisting further reduction. Up to this time little attention had been paid to infection with intestinal worms. In the latter part of 1906, systematic treatment of the prisoners for intestinal worms was begun and vigorously carried out until practically the entire population of the prison had been treated. Following, and, in Dr. Heiser's opinion, largely as the result of this antihelminthic campaign among the prisoners, the death rate dropped to 13 per one thousand per annum.
Whether or not this apparent relationship between intestinal worms and the death rate at Bilibid will be substantiated by future records at the Prison, or would be confirmed by the institution of a similar campaign throughout the Islands, its significance can scarcely be overestimated even though ultimately the results should prove to be but a fraction of what was apparently accomplished among the Bilibid prisoners. It moreover sharply emphasizes the fact that the absence of direct, acute manifestations of intestinal helminthiasis should not blind us to the vital importance of these infections as factors in determining the hygienic condition of a people.
Applying the rates of infection obtained from the 4,106 prisoners examined at Bilibid to the total population of the Islands (about 7,000,000), it would appear that about 5,000,000 persons in the Philippines are infected with intestinal worms and that the inhabitants of "the Islands harbor over 9,000,000 infections. The magnitude of these figures indicates in part the tremendous proportions of the problems involved in any radical movement toward improvement of existing conditions, especially when we consider that the situation does not appear to be simplified by any marked confinement of the infections to limited areas. Even a casual knowledge of sanitary conditions prevailing throughout the Islands throws additional light upon the difficulties to be encountered and leads to the question whether it is practicable at the present time to institute special prophylactic measures directed toward the eradication of intestinal worms, or whether we must content ourselves with the gradual sanitary improvement of the country.

