44
SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ZOOLOGY
Girella punctata from Batan Island, which lies midway between Taiwan and Luzon, and is politically part of the Philippines. I have not included the Girellidae as part of the Philippine fauna for the purposes of Tables A and B (Appendix 2).
Glaucosomatidae
This family contains a single genus, Glaucosoma, and four species (Arai and Fujii, 1981) of free-swimming fishes that attain a maximum total length of about 450 mm. The species have been reported only from the coasts of Japan, China, Philippines, and Australia. In Queensland, it is known only from the offshore southern portions of the coast; therefore, the overall distribution of Glaucosoma appears to be antiequatorial.
GOBIESOCIDAE
The clingfishes comprise about 40 genera and 110 species of small (largest species is about 300 mm TL, but most are under 75 mm), benthic, nest-building fishes with planktonic larvae. The species occur in a variety of habitats, including freshwater rivers and coral reefs. Several species live commensally with crinoids. Clingfishes occur in all oceans, as well as the Mediterranean and Black Sea, and are generally widely distributed along continental coastlines. Most of the genera, but only about one-third of the species, occur in the Indo-pacific. Only four species are known from the nonmarginal areas on the Pacific Plate, and on the Plate each is known from a single locality. One of these species, Trachelochismus pinnulatus (otherwise restricted to New Zealand), questionably occurs at the Chatham Islands, which, although nonmarginal on the Pacific Plate, are on the continental shelf of New Zealand. Hence, T. pinnulatus is excluded from further consideration here. 1 Pherallodus indicus is reported
Hutton (1896) described Crepidogaster simus (a synonym of T. pinnulatus) from "Lyttleton Harbor New Zealand] and Chatham Islands" Information in the description appears to refer to a single specimen. If only one specimen was involved, it could not have come from both localities. Trach-from several Indonesian localities and from Raroia, Tuamotu (Briggs, 1955). Liobranchia stria is reported only from Saipan, Marianas, and Bikini, Marshalls (Briggs, 1955; Schultz, 1966b). Liobranchia, is possibly a Pacific Plate endemic genus (Figure 60). Randall (in press b) obtained Lepadichthys frenatus from the Pitcairn Island group; this species is otherwise known only from widely scattered localities in the western Pacific. Briggs (1955215, map) inadvertently indicated the presence of Lepadichthys minor in the Ellice Islands, on the Pacific Plate; Samoa was intended, as indicated in his materials list.
Most species of tropical Indo-pacific clingfishes are tiny, and more will probably be found to occur on the Pacific Plate.
Gobiidae
The gobies are probably the largest family of fishes, perhaps containing as many as 2000 species (Hoese and Allen, 1977). Most of the species are small, and among these are the smallest vertebrates (some species of Eviota mature at less than 10 mm SL; E.A. Lachner, pers. comm). Among the largest gobies is the Japanese genus Synechogobius, which attains a total length of 500 mm (Takita, 1975). Gobies are essentially benthic or suprabenthic in habit. Some species are restricted to freshwater, some are estuarine, but most are reef or near-reef inhabitants. Hoese and Allen (1977) estimate that 400-600 species of gobiids occur on the coral reefs of the Indo-pacific.
The taxonomic limits of gobiid genera are poorly known and very few of the Indo-pacific genera have been revised in recent years. The list of Pacific Plate genera (estimated 150 species; Table C, Appendix 2) was compiled from the literature, USNM collections, and in consultation with D.F. Hoese (see also "Addendum). Among the genera, Lentipes (adults of which inhabit freshwater in Hawaii), with one species (Maciolek,
Trachelochismus pinnulatus has been collected at New Zealand localities many times, but has not been reported to have been collected at the Chatham Islands subsequent to the initial report.

