1S93.] G. King — Materials for a Flora of the Malayan Peninsula. 135 the shortly ovate anthers; apical connectival appendage deflexed, curved, longer than the anther. Ovary elongated-conic, tomentose, tapering into the sparsely puberulous style; stigma small. Ripe fruit narrowly ovoid, apiculate, pale brownish-tomentose, 1.25 to 1.5 in. long. and .75 to 1 in. in diam. Persistent sepals nearly equal, their bases thickened, woody, pubescent, and concave, forming an irregularly 5-toothed cup which embraces the lower half of the fruit. Shorea Hemsleyana, King MSS. in Herb. Calc. Penang: Curtis No. 2512. Perak: King.s Collector, Nos. 5431, 6670, and 7562. Scortechini No. 1653. This is an altogether anomalous species. It has leaves like several of the scabrid species of Shorea, such as S. eximia and S. leprosula. Its flowers are also more like those of Shorea than Balano-carpus; but its fruit is essentially that of the latter genus, in which, not without hesitation, I include it. 10. Pachynocarpus, Hook. fil. Resinous trees with the leaves and flowers of Vatica, but with sometimes only ten stamens. Fruit ovoid-globose, umbonate at the apex, 1-celled, 1-seeded, the pericarp densely coriaceous, splitting vertically. Calyx with five equal segments, at first almost free from the fruit, but the tube gradually accrescent, much thickened and adnate to the fruit, and finally embracing the whole of it except the apex. Seed pendulous, testa thin and adherent to the endocarp, cotyledons very thick and fleshy. Leaves elliptic to oblong-elliptic, sub-acute or shortly and obtusely acuminate... ... 1. P. Wallichii. Leaves broadly-elliptic or obovate-elliptic, the apex very blunt ... ... ... 2. P. Stapfianus. Dr. Burck (in Ann. Jard. Bot. Buitenzorg) expands the definition of the genus Vatica so as to include not only the closely allied Synaptea, but also the genera Isauxis W. A , Retinodendron, Korth., and Pachynocarpus Hook fil. To the union of Synaptea with Vatica I see no objection; for the whole difference between the two (as I have stated in a note under Vatica) consists in perfect freedom of the fruit in Vatica from the enlarged calyx, whereas in Synaptea there is a slight adhesion to the calyx at the very base. But for the inclusion of Pachynocarpus, I see no sufficient justification; for in this genus the calyx does not expand into membranous wings, but forms a dense fibro-cartilaginous cover for the fruit, which it tightly embraces and to which it is quite adnate. As regards Isauxis and Retinodendron, they appear to me to be undistinguishable from each other by any but trivial marks, but they differ sufficiently in calyx from Vatica to be treated as a genus under the older name Retinodendron. 1. Pachynocarpus Wallichii, King. A tree 40 to 70 feet high: young branches deciduously scurfy-puberalous, their bark pale-brown, sparsely lenticellate. Leaves coriaceous, elliptic to oblong-elliptic, J. 11. 18 
