122 Malvaceae. [Vatica. 5. V. Grifithii, Kz.; H.f. Ind. Fl. i. 310—A glabrous tree; leaves ovate, lanceolate, on a rather short but slender petiole, acute at base, long and bluntish caudate-acuminate, coriaceous, somewhat glossy, and the midrib sharply prominent beneath, the 10-12 lateral nerves very faint and sometsometimesines hardly visible; flowers very small, almost sessile, in one-sided racemes, forming rather simple flexuose and slender glabrous panicles in the axils of the leaves; calyx glabrous, the lobes broad, rounded and ciliate; petals velvety out-side, about a line long; anthers short, terminated by a dark-coloured stiff bristle of the length of the anther itself or somewhat longer. Hab.—Tenasserim. Vatica, L. Calyx-tube very short, adnate to the torus; the lobes manifestly imbricate. Stamens 15, the connective produced in a sharp point shorter than the unequal anther-cells. Ovary inserted with a broad base, free, 3-celled; style linear. Capsules free, coriaceous, irregu-laryly dehiscent or dehiscing from the apex by 3 valves, one-seeded; the calyx-tube unchanged, the lobes only slightly enlarged, equally long, and never reaching the length of the capsule itself.—Glabrous trees with entire leaves. Flowers fragrant, racemose in panicles. 1. V. lancaeafolia, Bl.; H.f. Ind. Fl. i. 302.—A middle-sized tree, the younger parts mealy-puberulous, soon glabrescent; leaves lanceolate, acute at base, 5-8 in. long, acuminate, glabrous, more or less glaucous beneath, chartaceous; flowers rather large, white, shortly pedicelled, in racemes, forming axillary and terminal tawny puberulous panicles; calyx (and petals outside), tawny velvety, the lobes ovate, acute; capsule the size of a pigeon’s egg, supported by the 5 nearly equally enlarged calyx-lobes shorter than the calyx itself. Hab.—Chittagong; Burma.—Fl. May; Fr. Jul.-Aug. Remakrs.—Ghund of the Brahmins, a strong-smelling balsam, is the pro-duct of this tree. Malvaceae. Flowers regular, hermaphrodite or unisexual. Bracteoles 3 or more, free or combined, often forming a cort of calyx. Sepals 5, valvate, free or connate. Petals 5, twisted-imbricate. Stamens numerous, rarely definite, adnate to the base of the petals; fila-ments united in a tube or a column; anthers oblong or reniform, ultimately 1-celled, the cells sinuous or twisted, bursting longitu-dinally. Ovary 2-many-celled, with 1 or more ovules in each cell attached to the inner angle, entire or lobed, or of 2-5 or more carpels 
