Philippines
The southern platform is similar to the north side in having abundant large coral heads on a gently sloping sandy bottom. Millepora sp. and small
wave-resilient Pocillopora colonies are common on shallow boulders. A similar fauna exists in a know-uke formation in the south-west. This structure is cut by grooves, probably from erosion. Intermittent patches of foliose and encrusting forms occur in deeper areas.
The west has a dense coral population, especially just below tide level. Acropora and Monlipora predominate, with soft corals in deeper parts. The steep drop-off has a high diversity of encrusting and foliose forms, and a wide range of gorgonians and sea whips. A large sand charmel has a wide variety of free-living corals; Psammocora and Fungia inhabit the base of the wall and some large shelf areas. Some areas support educate colonies of Seriate pora.
Forty-five genera of corals have been reported at Sombrero Island (Mcmanus el a, 1981); Acropora colonies of different growth forms are dominant. Other abundant corals are: Pocillopora sp., Montipora sp., Porites sp., and Pachyseris sp. Overall coral cover was estimated at about 45.
Noteworthy Fauna and Flora The grass Themada Triandra covers about 75% of the total area of the island. The fish fauna was studied by Mcmanus el al. (1981) and Murdy el al. (1981) and 329 fish species have been recorded. The top ten genera of fish in terms of abundance are Anihias, Pomacenlrus,
Pleclroglyphidodon, Dascyllus, Chromis, Apogon, Thalassoma, Pseudocheilinus, Halichoeres
and Cirrhilabrus. The berry Aiidamia pacifica dominates the rocky shoreline. The invertebrate fauna includes the soft corals Xenia, Sarcophylon, tunicates Polycarpa, Oxycorynia, bivalves Lopha and gastropods, especially the Money Cowrie Cyprea monela. The asteroid Linckia is found in shallow areas (MPRDP, 1982b).
Scientific Importance and Research Research on the island's coral communities has been carried out primarily in preparation for its establishment as a marine park. Mcmanus et al. (1981) and Murdy el al. (1981) studied the fish fauna. A study is currently being conducted by the NAME and BFAR on the effects of tourist activities on coral reef and related fisheries; this involves the assessment of coral damage due to boat anchors and diving activities. White (1986b) included this area in a comparative study of the effectiveness of marine reserves in the management of coral reefs.
Economic Value and Social Benefits The area is one of the main fishing grounds for fishermen from the nearby municipalities of Mabini and Tingloy. It is very popular with both local and foreign divers, providing an additional source of income for the local inhabitants and "bankers" (boat operators); the town of Smilax provides accommodation for tourists.
Disturbance or Deficiencies Fishing, both legal and Legal, has been common around the island for a long time. Illegal practices, such as dynamite and muro-ami fishing, have been reported. Commercial fishing (illegal within 7 km from the shoreline) has resulted in a decline in the catch of subsistence fishermen. The increase in aquarium fish collecting may not only decrease fish
numbers but also kill other organisms through the illegal practice of using sodium cyanide or other chemicals. The increase in the number of visiting tourists has caused further deterioration through anchor damage, careless divers, spearfishing and coral collection (MPRDP, 1981). However, the actual extent of destruction has yet to be established.
Legal Protection Sombrero Island was declared a Marine Reserve and Tourist Zone under Proclamation 1801 but has never been implemented as such.
Management The area has been proposed as a Marine Park. The Philippine Tourism Authority (PTA) has been charged with implementing guidelines for the management of tourist activities and there has been some management through the local resorts. Resort owners may brief SCUBA divers and tourists on the existing regulations when visiting Sombrero Island. Recreational activities such as SCUBA diving, swimming, snorkelling, underwater photography, and island picnics are allowed. Fishing in any form, including spearfishing, and collection of marine organisms, is prohibited around the island.
Recommendations Recommendations detailed in a management scheme drawn up by the Marine Park Task Force of ARMS cover legislation, sustainable resource use, survey and research methods, zoning, public education, and community participation. It is
recommended that enforcement of regulations within the Reserve be delegated to resort owners and employees with the help of the NAME staff. The Mayors of Tingloy, Mabini and other communities could be enacted to implement the marine park scheme among their communities. Co-operation among interested parties is needed to create the firm base necessary for proper management (White, 1984).
SUMILON ISLAND MARINE RESERVE AND FISH SANCTUARY
Geographical Location In Cebu Strait, about 2 km off the southern tip of Cebu Island, Central Philippines, some 17 km north-east of Dumaguete City, Negros Island; 921N, 12323E.
Area, Depth, Altitude 23 ha in area and 284 m at the highest point. The total reef area to 40 m depth is about 50 ha.
Land Tenure Municipal Government of Oslob, Cebu. Terrestrial area privately owned but some areas leased by Silliman University.
Physical Features Sumilon is a low island of uplifted volcanic basement with a land surface of coralline limestone rock, a thin layer of topsoil, some small hardwood stands, and beach vegetation. It is surrounded by 3-5 m high cliffs on all sides except the north-eastern shore, where a narrow carbonate sand beach and beach ock line the shore and behind which lies a small mangrove lagoon. Beyond the lagoon are 20 m-high limestone cliffs. On the south end there is an abandoned Spanish tower built during the 18th century, with a modern, non-functioning lighthouse next to it
-257
