274 Philippine Journal of Science »
Nueva Viscaya Province, Imugan (Baker). It appears to be abundant at Baguio, but is represented by a few specimens from the other localities.
Halictus philippinensis Ashmead.
Halictus philippinensis Ashmead, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. 28 (1904) 128; Cockerell, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. 36 (1909) 419; Crawford, Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington 19 (1918) 169, 170.
Luzon, Manila (Stanton)  Laguna Province, Los Baiios (Baker) ; Mount Maquiling (Baker)  Mountain Province, Baguio (Baker)  Tayabas Province, Malinao (Baker)  Leyte, Tacloban (Baker). Panay, Antique Province, Culasi (McGregor), June, 1918. Negros, Cuernos Mountains (Baker). Mindanao, Davao (Baker) ; Cagayan (Baker) ; Zamboanga (Baker). Basilan (Baker). Palawan, Puerto Princesa (Baker)
This is the commonest and most widespread Halictus in the Archipelago, extending from Luzon to Mindanao and Palawan, A specimen from Los Bafios carries a manuscript name given by Friese.
Halictus philippinensis var. nigritarselhis var. nov.
Male. — Hind tarsi dark; flagellum dark or dusky beneath. The tarsi are entirely without yellow, but the last joint is ferruginous apically. Type of the variety from Pagsanhan, Laguna Province; others from Mount Maquiling and Los Banos, Luzon. All from Baker.
Halictus thoracicus sublustrans subsp. nov.
Female. — Length, about 6 millimeters; similar to H. thoraci-eus Friese, from Java, but with the abdomen shining and tegulse, stigma, and nervures piceous or black. The dense tomentum on the postscutellum is white, often with a delicate ocherous tint. The species is very peculiar for the wholly dull area of the metathorax, with large reticulations, and especially for the sculpture of the mesothorax, which appears rough under a lens but under the microscope is seen to have a raised network or cancellation all over, entirely different from the fine tessellation often seen on the thorax of bees.
Luzon, Nueva Viscaya Province, Imugan (Baker), 5 (including the type)  Mount Banahao (Baker)  2. Panay, Antique Province, Culasi (Mcgregor)  3, at flowers of Homalanthus populneus Pax, June 3, 1918.
