Coral Reefs of the World
patrol the area with them to apprehend illegal fishermen (Hodgson in lilt, 9287).
Recommendations May be proposed as a marine reserve (White in litt, 30187).
FUGA ISLAND MUSEUM
Geographical Location In the Babuyan Charmel, approximately 20 nautical miles (37 km) north of the municipality of Claveria, Cagayan Province, Northern Philippines; 1850-1855N, 12ri3e.
Area, Depth, Altitude The island has an approximate area of 115 sq. km (20 x 6 km); highest point is Mt Nanguringan at 191 m.
Land Tenure Reported to be privately owned by the Taggat Lumber Company (MPRDP, 1983).
Physical Features Fuga Island is in the Babuyan Islands, north of Luzon Island. It is an elongated island (east-west axis) with two small islands, Barit and Maybag, located on the western side. Irao Island ges approximately 10 km to the north-east (NEPAL, 1977). On the south side currents may reach 7-8 knots (13-15 kmhr) and 8 ft (24 m) swells are common (Smith et al, 1982). A drop-off of about 100 feet (30 m) starts from a shallow platform on the south face and a series of caves can be found at the base.
Reef Structure and Corals Three stations were surveyed on Fuga and the surrounding islands (UPMSC, 1979). Maybag had fairly good coral cover ranging from 432% to 6125% on both northern and southern sides. Barit Island had fair coral cover of 375. No signs of destruction were observed. Dominant coral genera observed included Pontes, Acropora, Favia, Favites, Diploastrea and Galaxea. Fuga is ringed by a fringing reef with very high coral cover. On the western side, opposite Barit Island, is a barrier reef dotted with coral mounds 12-15 fathoms (22-27 m) deep (MPRDP, 1982a).
Noteworthy Fauna and Flora The surrounding waters are rich in pelagic gamefish, eg. marlin, tuna, sailfish, wahoo, etc, which are attracted to the Kuro Shio Current (NEPC, 1977). Sharks, particularly Hammerheads, Black-tips and White-tips, as well as some species of barracudas, are present in moderate numbers. There is a strong indication of precious coral beds in the vicinity (NRMC, nd). The island is noted for its lobsters.
Scientific Importance and Research Fuga Island has been surveyed in connection with the project of the U.P. Marine Sciences Center "Investigation of the Coral Resources of the Philippines" (UPMSC, 1979).
Economic Value and Social Benefits Fishing is the main source of livelihood for the inhabitants of Fuga Island (MPRDP, 1982). It is one of the best venues for sport fishermen and sport divers who are attracted by the rich assemblage of pelagic fish; the south side is a popular diving site (Smith el al, 1982).
Disturbance or Deficiencies Taiwanese precious coral poachers have been observed in the area (MPRDP, 1983).
Legal Protection Fuga Island was declared a Tourist Zone and Marine Reserve under Proclamation 1801 but has never been established as such. In addition, Fuga and surrounding islands have been declared an Underwater Museum under Proclamation 1744. Fishing and collection of any marine life form is prohibited, but regulations have never been enforced.
Management Control and administration of tourist pohcies he with the Philippine Tourism Authority (NEPAL, 1977; MPRDP, 1983). The Philippine Navy and Coast Guard are expected to enforce regulations (MPRDP, 1983) but there has never been any management.
HONDA BAY PROPOSED MARINE PARK
Geographical Location About 8 km north-east of Puerto Princesa, on the eastern side of Palawan Island; 950-10N, 11844-119E.
Area, Depth, Altitude The bay is approximately 28 000 ha. The shallow reef environment reaches 7-18 m depth. The islands are flat and rise just above sea level.
Land Tenure The islands are government-owned and have not yet been subjected to land classification; at present, they are leased to private individuals for coconut cultivation.
Physical Features Honda Bay is a large body of water with twelve islands scattered within it. The bay is quite exposed to the open sea and is relatively shallow, sloping down to 24 fathoms (49 m) in the middle. Reefs in the area include fringing reefs, patch reefs and some shoals. Some patch reefs have sand areas with mangrove stands and are known by local names such as Marcelo Island, Pulling Island and Isla Puting Buhangin. Some of the islands are part of larger, reef-island complexes, such as the reef complex connecting Kalungpang, Parunponon and Buguias Islands (total area of reef; 879 ha), the Meara-fraser Islands reef complex (452 ha), and the Makesi Island reef (389 ha). Some of these reefs have lagoons which are only accessible at high tide, such as the two small lagoons in the Meara-fraser Island reef and the lagoon in the Kalungpang-parunponon Buguias Island reef (NRMC, 1984b). A general description of the area and islands is given in Bruce (1981).
The waters of Honda Bay are free from strong ocean currents and are relatively safe and calm. North-east monsoon winds affect the waters from November to February, decreasing visibility. The south-west monsoon season (most pronounced from June to August) does not affect the area much. Very calm and glassy smooth waters may occur between February and April. The Tandayak and Babuyan Rivers discharge on the northern coast of the bay.
Reef Structure and Corals The fringing reefs have very wide and often shallow reef flats, frequently many times
-248
