NOTES ON THE FLORA OF CEYLON. 205 broadly oval, subacute; petals oblong-oval, slightly concave, not twisted; stamens very small, about 60; filaments dilated at base, and prolonged beyond the adnate anther-cells into a strongly-ciliated apiculus about half as long as the anther ; ovary oblong-pyramidal, pubescent; style very short; fruit not known. 

Hab. "South of the Island" (C. P. 4010 in Hb. Perad.). Leaves smooth on both sides or with a few stellate hairs beneath; veins not prominent. Corolla apparently red. I regret that the material for this species is so scanty, consisting only of inflorescence in mature bud just about to expand ; we have no fruit, and no large foliage. There can, however, be little doubt that it is allied to S. oblongifolia Thw., from which it differs in the shape of the leaves, in the petals, and in the number and form of the stamens. I have not met with this species myself, nor do I know precisely where the specimens in the Herbarium were collected ; but I am glad to be the medium of publishing Dr. Thwaites' dedication of it to my friend Mr. Thiselton Dyer, the monographer of the Indian Dipterocarpeae

Shorea brevipetiolaris Thw. ms. — Leaves ovate, 4 or 5 in. long, cordate or subcordate at base, more or less caudate-acuminate and obtuse at apex, subcoriaceous ; lateral veins about 7 on either side, curved, prominent beneath ; petioles thick, curved, about \ in. long ; when young, usually very densely covered with short coarse shaggy hair, which is also scattered over the young twigs ; panicles about as long as leaves, several (2-5) coming off from one axil ; rachis with few short spreading branches, minutely pubescent ; bracts or very quickly caducous ; buds subglobose, blunt ; sepals ovate, obtuse, glabrous ; petals not expanded in the specimens ; stamens 15; filaments much dilated below; apiculus as long as anther ; ovary globose, cells with 2 ovules in each ; style subulate, as long as ovary ; fruit not known. Hab. Summit of Doluwe Kande, a few miles north of Kurunegala, N. W. Province, Dec, 1883. (Also C. P. 4008 (no locality) in Hb. Perad. (leaves only).). A small tree ; leaves quite glabrous, the petioles also becoming so when old, and then thickened, rugose, and chocolate-brown in colour. My specimens are in bud only ; the flowers seem to be white or pinkish. There is a young tree of this species in the Botanic Gardens, but it has not yet flowered; the leaf-specimens (C. P. 4008) in the Herbarium without locality may be from this tree. In the absence of fruit some doubt may be felt as to the genus ; if a Shorea, as is most probable, it is not very closely allied to the other Ceylon species. 

Shorea stipularis Thw., var. minor Thw. ms. — Leaves smaller than the type, about 3 in. long, the apex strongly twisted, very finely but densely pubescent beneath ; stipules less persistent, more acute and narrower, densely pubescent, as also the young growths. Hab. Morowe Korle, Southern Province, July, 1868, with fruit. (C. P. 3987 (in part-), and C. P. 4024, in Hb. Perad.). In the 

* C. P. 3987 is in part Doona macrophylla Thw.
