GEOLOGIC RECONNAISSANCE OF MINDANAO AND SULU. 497
ground; however, there are neither ashes nor lava. The pathway' follows the south side of a huge crevasse visible from far below, and after following this for about 300 meters crosses to the north side and continues along it and around its head to a knife-edged ridge leading to the summit. This crevasse in some places is probably 20 meters deep and 250 wide, it has eight or ten vents from which vapors containing sulphur dioxide issue. A cone of fairly pure sulphur surrounds each vent ; in individual cases these deposits may reach dimensions of several thousand kilos ; possibly there may be 400 metric tons of this material altogether. It probably' could not be handled conveniently. A clay tablet with the inscription —
La clinica Expedicion a Volcan Ap6
1880
ilontano y Rajal
exists at about 2,350 meters' altitude.
Our party reached the summit at a little after noon. So far as is now known, this is the highest mountain peak in the Philippine Archipelago. The altitude was determined by two trials with the boiling-point method, which gave respectively 2,956 and 2,902 meters. The barometric reading at the first trial showed 2,811 meters, which number is, of course, considerably in error. The old Spanish Coast and Geodetic chart of this region gives 3,143 meters, but work now being carried on by the Coast and Geodetic Survey of the United States shows that the Spanish work in these waters is in error.
The records of several parties are found on the summit, the earliest encountered being that of Schadenberg and Koch, 1882. None of the Montano expedition of 1880 was visible and possibly the tablet at about 2600 meters' altitude has been carelessly or maliciously removed from the top where it was originally placed.
The highest point of the mountain, as determined by measurement, is reached by crossing a low sag to the next pinnacle, and here is placed a cairn containing a brass tube with a screw top marked "S. C" Inside is a neat scroll of the Sierra Club of California, duly stamped with its seal and signed by its president, John Miner. This scroll was deposited in the month of October of 1904, by Dr. E. B. Copeland, formerly of the Bureau of Science. Our party was the first to sign on the register.
Sights, with the tiaiisit, were taken at all prominent points of the topography and boiling-point determinations were also made, although the work was much hampered by fog. The weather cleared in the late afternoon and we were able to observe the panorama from the summit.
The Gulf of Davao was plainly visible with its island and coves, encircled by dark green wooded mountains and long volcanic slopes. The Rio Grande cuts across the foreground as a silver streak, extending far in the midst of many folds of green which continue without break to the skyline to the westward. The vast extent of the jungle in this island is very strongly impressed upon the observer. Mount Rattan is visible some 63 kilometers away, appearing as an isolated cone. It was sighted with a level, and appears to be but little lower, even at that distance, than the point on which we stood. If the curvature of the earth is taken

