Section 5: Asia
Sulu-sulawesi
Seascape -Sy (
MO go BOO
I Trtnoial Sea Turtle
Corridor I Balabac Cotridcr
Figure 12: Sulu-sulawesi Seascape. Source: Conservation International
Highlights the four focal "corridors' of CI as part
of their Seascape project.
time horizons: Immediate (0-2 years); Intermediate (up to 5 years); and Long-term (3-10 years) (WWF-SSME Program, 2004).
In tlie Framework, the term MPA network< is used to describe a system of MPAS that fulfils biodiversity conservation goals, and that also functions as a 'learning network' for the managers of the sites within it (ie. that provides a social MPA network). The ultimate aim is that each MPA should consist of one or more fully protected areas (ANTS) surrounded by sustainable use zones, and that the system should be fully integrated with broader ICM, CRM and fisheries management and development plans. The development of the MPA network is to be based on criteria listed in the framework (and based on those in Noss (1992)):
1. Representation: Examples of all biological communities and habitats to be included;
2. Viability: MPAS to be large enough and their distribution broad enough to maintain viable populations of all species of special concern in the SAME;
3. Ecological and evolutionary processes: MPAS to be large enough, their distribution broad
enough, and controls in place on activities taking place outside MPAS, to ensure continuation of essential ecological and evolutionary processes;
4. Resilience: MPAS selected for strict protection to include sites known or likely to be sources of recruits for other parts of the SAME, and sites that have a high survival or recovery rate following impacts.
52,3. PHILIPPINES  NATIONAL NETWORK The Philippines has an estimated 1170 MPAS (World Bank, 2006; Arceo et al, 2008). The majority (9001000) are small co-managed sanctuaries and fishing reserves, generally managed at municipal level jointly by communities and local government and comprising small (2-200 ha) ANTS or sanctuaries, surrounded by fishing reserves within which traditional forms of fishing are allowed. Of those with known sizes, 35% are less than 10 ha and 48% are between 11-100 ha; the more recently established MPAS tend to be in the larger category and are increasingly being integrated into ICM plans (Arceo et al, 2008). There are also 13 larger MPAS proclaimed by the government as Protected Seascapes (multiple use) and Marine Parks (no take areas) as part of the National Integrated Protected Areas System (NIPAS), and managed by the Protected Area Management Board, but few are considered effectively managed except for the Tubbataha Reef Natural Park in the Sulu Sea that is managed as a no-take reserve. Additional types of MPAS are mangrove forest reserves and protected artificial reefs.
Following a series of workshops at which terms, definitions and goals were agreed (Arceo et al, 2003) the Philippine Marine Sanctuary Strategy was formulated. This sets a target of 10% of 'marine waters' to be fully protected (ie. NTA) by 2020 in an MPA network that will include 10% of the country's coral reefs. Criteria for selection of sites are listed in White et al. (2005) and address essential principles, including minimum size, amount of habitat to be included and connectivity. Five major biogeographical regions were identified in White et al. (2005), revised to six in Arceo etal. (2008), based on geomorphology, ocean basins, bathymetry, and major water circulation patterns: South China Sea, Visayas, Northern Philippine Sea, Southern Philippine Sea, Celebes Sea and Sulu Sea. MPA networks are to be established for each bioregion which will contribute to the national level network.
Support for the establishment of the bioregion MPA networks is coming from a variety of sources. The Sulu Sea area is being addressed through WWF'S SAME programme (see above). The Fisheries
72

