-6Myrtaceae, Euphorbiaceae. and Latrraceae (Penafiel 1980). Mossy forests have little consnercial value but they have an important role to play in ensuring watershed stabilization.
iv) Molave forests  Molave forests occur in regions with a very pronounced wet and dry season and are usually associated with the presence of well drained, limestone-derived soils. The molave tree Vitex parviflora  a member of the teak, family, is the dominant species from which the whole forest association takes its name. The woods of the molave forest trees are noted for their natural beauty and durability but since these forests are easily accessible  they usually occupy the areas immediately behind the beach woodland or mangrove forest where climatic conditions are too dry for dipterocarps  most have now been felled.
v) Pine forests  Two species of pine forming pure stands are found in the Philippines. They are the Benguet pine Pinus insularis and the Mindoro or tapulau pine P. merkusii.  Benguet pine forests occur in regions with distinct wet and dry seasons at elevations between 700 and 1800 m asl. The two known tapulau pine forests occupy an area mainly between 100 and 500 m asl. Grasslands are an integral part of the pine forests and most stands of pine occur as groves on grass meadows. The Benguet pines are used as mining timbers and for general construction purposes but the tapulau pine has practically no economic importance in the Philippines.
All the forest formations of the Philippines have been considerably reduced by agricultural development and logging, and in many areas they have been replaced by tall tropical grasslands composed primarily of Imperata  Saccharum and Phragmites species. These grasslands occur on almost every type of relief from mountain summits and ridge tops to rolling hill country, plateau land and flat coastal plains. They are a minor source of thatching materials. They are also used for grazing purposes but because they are of relatively low nutritive value they provide only a very poor pastureland.

