Section 10: Recommendations
and successes amongst regions should be enhanced through workshop, study tours and twinning arrangements, and electronic networking. A wide range of organization and agencies, including LUCN, the CBD, UNE-RSP, international NGOS, and donors can play a role in facilitating and supporting such work, but much can also be done at the local level.
One example is the Marine Learning Partnership established by TNC, CI, WIS and WWF, with funding from US-AID (Corrigan, 2006). The goal of this is to accelerate MPA network development by improving knowledge and understanding of MPA network implementation in the field by improving conservation practice on ground, scaling up from MPA sites to ecological networks, and generating and disseminating increased knowledge of MPA networks though inter-organizational collaboration, in particular, by including local MPA managers in the initiatives. The Partnership comprises some 30 representatives of MPAS in South-east Asia (Philippines and Indonesia), the Pacific (Fiji, Micronesia, Palau and Papua New Guinea), the Caribbean (Belize, Mexico, Jamaica, Virgin Islands), the Eastern Tropical Pacific (Baja California, Costa Rica, Galapagos) and Africa (Madagascar, Tanzania, Senegal and Gabon). A series of field trips and study visits were undertaken to different sites in the Partnership and workshops undertaken to learn about and develop work plans relating to biophysical aspects of network design, sustainable financing and social financing. Further initiatives of this nature would be valuable.
3. EXPAND REGIONAL, NATIONAL AND LOCAL INITIATIVES TO ESTABLISH MPA NETWORKS
MPA network planning must start, or be increased, in all coastal countries as soon as possible, and implementation fully addressed, if real progress is to be made by 2012. The 2008 CC resolution calls on States to accelerate their efforts to meet the target, and on civil society, regional organization, and bilateral and multilateral assistance agencies, to support the commitments of governments to create and improve the effectiveness of MPAS and networks.
The CC Resolution recommends States to define MPA networks using a diversity of complementary tools to allow the combining of highly protected areas (ANTS) with managed multiple use areas. MPA
networks need to be larger, contain the most resistant and resilient populations of marine organisms, and be connected in such a way to ensure free transfer of larvae, juveniles and adults to restock populations and repair damage. Scientific guidance is now available through the CBD and WCPA-MARINE (LUCNWCPA, 2008a) with agreed guidelines and principles, suitable biogeographical classifications (eg. MEOW) and decision-support tools (eg. Marxan) have been developed, and encouragement must given to countries to use these, adapt them where necessary. The basic science for developing MPA networks is understood and should not therefore be considered an obstacle, but there is an important role for scientists and academic institutions in further developing understanding of concepts such as adequacy, connectivity and resilience.
Full and effective participation of indigenous and local communities, in accordance with the national legislation and applicable international obligations, is essential. Lack of funding, political will and government commitment is a constraint in many countries, particularly when it comes to implementation of plans that have been developed, and, as recommended by Leslie (2005), assessments of the costs and benefits of the network approach are needed so that countries can budget for it and appreciate its value. Linking the development of MPA networks with overall national conservation system planning, and harmonising the process with the establishment of terrestrial protected area systems should also be considered. Appropriate policies and legislation must be introduced where needed.
Gaps In MPA network development at the regional level could be reduced by improved coordination between government, international organization and NGOS, and the development of guidance on how regional networks might best be established. The value of UNEP-RSP as a framework for MPA network initiatives is recognized (IRAN, 2005), but this organisation lacks adequate financial resources and capacity to take this role on fully, and there is a need to establish specific work plans, and obtain the necessary resources, including dedicated staff, for this activity. Better cooperation and coordinated action regarding the establishment of MPAS is required is also required with the RIMS, both within and beyond areas of national jurisdiction. Support for the growing number of social networks will also help to promote the development of ecological MPA networks.
120

