Sea, the Sulu Sea, the Celebes Sea, and, across the Equator, the coastal waters of Papua and the Solomons. From the results of past surveys it appears that the schools are most densely concentrated generally around May and November, that is, just after the change in the seasonal winds. The seasonal changes are, however, slight, and fish are taken the year round with no great variation.
The area within which fishing is carried on at present lies for the most part between 0° and 10N. If we compare, without regard to the longitude, the catches made north and south of the line of 5° north latitude, they are as shown in the following table. This table, however, does not show the data from a single year, but is a summary of the results of surveys made in several recent years.
Table 5 Comparison of Catch Rates North and South of 5N (Tlfithin South Seas Government-general)
Note. The catch rate is the number of fish taken per 100 hooks.
Table 5 shows clearly that the schools are denser in the waters of the lower latitudes than they are in the higher latitudes. It is said that in general yellowfin are abundant in the Equatorial Countercurrent, but it can be seen that they are particularly numerous south of 5N.
The yellowfin of this area are generally small, averaging about 33 kg, about the same size as the yellowfin of the East Philippines Sea, All species of spearfishes occur in this area, but the black marlin and the sailfish seem to be especially abundant.
(c) Sulu Sea
There is very little data on this area, but judging by the activities of fishing boats the schools are most concentrated in the early part of the northeast monsoon, and besides yellowfin many broadbills and black marlin are taken.
(d) Celebes Sea
Spearfishes are abundant in this area. Table 1 includes both the Celebes Sea west of 125 E and the eastern sea area around 130E. The schools are clearly different in these two sea areas, yellowfin being somewhat fewer and the occurrence of spearfishes more conspicuous in the eastern area than in the Celebes Sea.
23

