42 I. THE SEDILI RIVERS Kelantan rivers where its large trees marked, also, the tidal freshwater stretch. Possibly they had been felled or carried away by floods. Floristic comparison with the Sedili. In the few days available to me I concentrated on the more conspicuous members of the vegetation.

a. Species common on the Kemaman river, absent from the Sedili: — Barringtonia spicata (putat ulu, B. acutangula ssp. spicata), Derris heptaphylla (rare on the Sedili), Eugenia densiflora (jambu ayer), Dipterocarpus oblongifolius (and its associated flora, p. 44), Grewia tomentosa (common in belukar on the Kemaman, coastal in the Sedili region), Lagerstroemia speciosa (bungor raya), Mallotus floribundus (taping), Millettia hemsleyana (jada), and Securinega virosa (bebeti).Lagerstroemia ovalifolia (bungor menuku), was fairly common, but scarce on the Sedili. Two species of Tetracera (T. akara, T. indica, akar pelah or mempelas) were abundant up stream from the nipa-zone.

b. Species common on the Sedili river, absent from the Kemaman: — Buchanania, Ceratopteris, Elaeocarpus macrocerus, Eugenia cerina, E. fastigiata, E. muelleri, E. pseudosubtilis, E. spicata, E. valdevenosa. Ficus calophylla. Gardenia tubijera, Limnophila, Mesua ferruginea, Polyalthia sclerophylla, Pongamia pinnata, and Vatica wallichii. There was, in fact, no vestige of the mempisang-belt of the Sedili river. The common large strangling figs of the Kemaman were F. crassiramea and F. sundaica. F. microcarpa was very scarce on the Kemaman; I saw only one fairly well-grown specimen on the river-bank at S. Rassau Beranyut where, as might be expected, the fresh and brackish water interchanged. Notes on the river-side vegetation of the Kemaman river. Acrostichum aureum extended from the mangrove abundantly to Kg Nior; not seen above Kg Binjai. Barringtonia conoidea (putat) apeared in the upper part of the nipa-zonc and continued in more or less scattered clumps up to Kg Pasir Halus where the last upstream stand of rassau was situated. Putat was most abundant between Kg Nior and S. Rassau Beranyut. It soon disappeared where, on going downstream, nipa began. Barringtonia spicata (putat ulu) occurred in fair abundance from Kg Nior upstream to K. Simpang. It was evidently restricted to the freshwater tidal stretch of the river. Derris heptaphylla occurred chiefly between the upper limit of nipa and K. Simpang, but scattered plants were climbing in flood-damaged parts of the neram-b&nks on S. Ayam and S. Nipa. Dipterocarpus oblongifolius (neram) was first encountered, going upstream, at Kg Pasir Halus, where tidal effect in the freshwater part of the river was becoming slight. Probably, in its original state, the Kemaman was a nerajn-v'ivtx from S. Pinang Hilir up to the Saraca-st reams of the ulu. Eugenia densiflora (jambu ayer) was in full flower at the end of June 1932 and, therefore, easy to distinguish. It occurred from Kg Binjai upstream to S. Ayam and was abundant as far up as Kg Pasir Gajah, well above K. Simpang. Between Kg Binjai and S. Pinang Hilir it formed in many places almost pure stands for up to 100 m along the river's edge. Here it was entwined with the two species of Tetracera, the red fruits of which among the posses of fragrant white flowers of the Eugenia made striking and beautiful pictures but the Malays with me were, as usual, indifferent to such sights. Upstream with neram this Eugenia was very scattered, but prospered in open flood-damaged places. It had become, indeed, a plant of river-side belukar.
