186 The Philippine Journal of Science 1918  For. Bur. 23831 Villamil, Naganaga, Zamboanga, Mindanao, May, 1914, in flower; For. Bur. 25193, 25210 Alvarez, Lanao, Mindanao; For. Bur. U81S Hutchinson, Basilan, July, 1906 (in fruit) ; For. Bur. 22757 Nave, Olutanga Island, June, 1914, with immature fruit. The flowers of this species are very much like those of Pentacme contorta, but are rather larger and have the ovary distinctly pubescent. It grows in much the same situations as P. contorta, and produces the same kind of wood. It is known in southern Mindanao as malacayan bianco. The large leaves and the rather large fruit are the characters by which the species is most readily recognized. 

2. PENTACME CONTORTA (Vid.) Merr. & Rolfe. Luzon: Cagayan, Isabela, Ilocos Norte, Ilocos Sur, Abra, Bontoc, Benguet, Nueva Vizcaya, Nueva Ecija, Pangasinan, Zambales, Bataan, Bulacan, Rizal, Laguna, Tayabas, Camarines, Albay, Sorsogon. Polillo. Marinduque. Mindoro. Masbate. Sibuyan. Samar. Negros. Basilan. Mindanao: Agusan, Davao, Cotabato, Lanao, Zamboanga. 3. PENTACME sp. This is a very little known form, of which sterile material was once collected in Tayabas. It is not certain that it should go in this genus and will remain in doubt till more complete material is collected. 5. SHOREA Roxb. Of about one hundred species in this genus, twenty-one are known from the Philippines. These include several of our most important woods. Most red lauan and mangasinoro, all tanguile and guijo, and some kinds of yacals and white lauans are produced by species of Shorea. Collectively, the members of this genus produce at least 35 per cent by volume of the stand of our commercial forests. There is considerable variation in leaf, bark, and wood characters. Some of the species have been collected only in flower, others in fruit, and yet others only with sterile material. This has made it difficult to be sure of the specific identification in a number of instances and has made it very difficult to prepare a key to the Philippine species. In a number of cases, it has not been practicable to refer collections to any particular species, and most of these cases have been left out of consideration in preparing the key. I have found it necessary to use wood characters for the main divisions of the key, in default of sufficiently sharp leaf differences. Key to the Philippine species of Shorea. a.Wood very hard and heavy, dark-yellowish, or yellowish-brown. The yacals. b\ Leaves the same color on both surfaces 18. S. scrobiculata. b*. Leaves lighter colored beneath. c*. Leaves cuneate or subcuneate at base. cf. Secondary nerves 8 or 9 pairs 2. S. ciliata. <F. Secondary nerves about 14 pairs 4. S. malibato. c*. Leaves rounded at base. d\ Style very short or wanting. 3. fir. astylosa. <f . Style distinct. e\ Leaves ovate-oblong 16 cm long, 7 cm wide.. 1. S. balangeran. e\ Leaves oblong to oblong-lanceolate 8.5 to 12 cm long, 3 to 6 cm wide 5. S. falciferoides.
