NOTES ON DIPTEROCAKPS. 279 dried flowers offer no character by which the two can be distinguished, it is well not to state dogmatically yet that P. umbonatus and P. Stapfianus are distinct species. Pachynocarpus verrucosus, (Burck) Heim, described upon a specimen from Sungei Landak in Borneo, north east of Pontianak, collected by Teysmann, will probably be united with one of the •other species when fully studied. 

Pachynocarpus Stapfianus is like Vatica Ridleyana a tree of rising laud. The result is that flowering herbarium specimens un.authenticated by fruits, if from the interior of the Peninsula, are more likely to be it than the similar Vatica Wallichii. We know it to occur in the Siamese Malay States, Penang, Perak, Selangor, :and Pahang. King's Collector records it as 8O-1O0 ft. high, with a girth up to 3 ft. As it occurs at Bangi, Selangor, it is a tree 38 ft. 2 in. high, and 3 ft. 1 in. in girth at breast height. The height to the first branch is 6 ft. -1 in., and the girth just below the first branch 2 ft. 11 in. The spread of the crown is 2:6 ft. 1 in. We have not measurements of any other trees. Its leaves in most cases dry dark as in some specimens of Vatica Wallichii, so that by their colour there is no means of separating the two when •dry. Of the flower in life we are not able to give a figure. We have records of flowering in July and October in different places and different years : and of fruiting in January, February, April and July. The fruit when half ripe is acute to blunt; and when fully ripe by the rounding of the fertile loculus becomes globose and generally loses the minute apiculus representing the style. It has not the dimensions ascribed to it by Sir George King in any of the type specimens but is about one inch long. The calyx is adherent through 1/2-1/3 of of the length of the fruit. It and the exposed surface of the carpellary wall above it are lenticellate, sometimes little, i-ometijmes much. The tip of the sepals persists and is free until the fruit is half ripe, then it generally falls off. The months when fruit is most likely to be found are March, April and May. The embryo is quite unlike that of Vatica Wallichii. The •outer cotyledon is half-wrapped half-folded round the placentar cotyledon ; and both reach the apex of the fruit cavity :  Figs. 9 and 10, the embryo of Pachynocarpus stapfianus 1/2 nat. size. Our material of Pachynocarpus Stapfianus is as follows : — Lower Siam. Tapli Klong Wan towards the Tenasserim border in fruit in March 1919, Hamid 3781 R. A. Soc, No. 86 1922. 
