190 The Philippine Journal of Science isis plicata and Shorea polita. The principal reason for considering the first as a possibility is that it has the underside of the leaves whitish and is sometimes known by the common name of malaanonan. Both of these conditions are met by the other two species. Blanco's description refers to three long calyx lobes in the fruit, which would certainly indicate Shorea rather than Parashorea. The description also mentions three stigmas, which is not the case in Parashorea plicata. It is often known as lauan or malaanonan. The common names reported for it from different provinces are: Litoc (Cagayan) ; apnit (Ilocos Sur) ; lauan or lauan puti (Nueva Ecija, Zambales, and Tayabas) • malaanonang (Rizal) ; baliuisiuis (Pang.). Much of our material is sterile and some of the material referred here is very doubtfully identified. Shorea polita Vid. I now believe to be a distinct species, differing from S. malaanonan by the smaller leaves. The fruit of the two forms is very similar. Luzon: Cagayan, Ilocos Sur, Pangasinan, Nueva Ecija, Zambales, Rizal, Tayabas. 

7. SHOREA POLITA Vidal Sinopsis, Atlas (1883) 15, t. 15, f. d. In my former paper I placed this, mistakenly, with S. malaanonan, from which it seems to be distinct. It is known by the following local names: Litoc (Cagayan) ; lauan (Zambales) ; malaanonang (Rizal) ; danlig (Rizal) ; and mangasinoro (Tayabas). Luzon: Cagayan, Zambales, ' Rizal, Tayabas. 8. SHOREA PHILIPPINENSIS Brandis. We are no nearer to understanding this species than we were six years since. Luzon: Bulacan, Bataan, Tayabas. Ticao. Leyte. 9. SHOREA PALLIDA sp. nov. Arbor, ramuli pilis stellatis tecti. Folia coriacea elliptica, brevissime acuminata, basi rotundata vel subcordata, petiolis et subtus foliis pilis stellatis obtectis, nervis secundariis utrinque 12 ad 15, tertiariis conspicuis. Fructus ovoideus, alae 3 oblongospatulatae, 7 cm longae, 16 mm latae. A large tree 30 m high and 75 cm in diameter. Wood white to brownish, soft, wood parenchyma lines and lines of resin canals inconspicuous or wanting. Vessels arranged in more or less regular patterns. Wood resembling that of Pentacme in appearance. Leaves elliptic, coriaceous, pallid above and beneath when dry, the very young leaves being darker in color, bluntly acuminate at apex, rounded or subcordate at base, 5 to 9 cm long, 3 to 5 cm wide. Secondary nerves 12 to 15 pairs, tertiary nerves distinct. Petioles short, 8 to 9 mm long, pubescent. Stipular-bracts enclosing the bud triangular-ovate, rather large and semipersistent, with several longitudinal nerves; stipules leaving a distinct scar on falling. Twigs dark colored, pubescent, with short internodes. Fruit ovoid, about 1 cm long and about the same diameter, enclosed by the bases of the calyx lobes ; three
