2 Post ill a Yale Peabody Museum No. 51
of the "miniature" A. J. magnirostris given by Delacour and Mayr, however, is based on the unique type of leticopias, which was described as a "young female" b' Sharpe.
I have examined the type of hlicopias, now in the American Museum of Natural History (Rothschild Collection), which remains to this writing the only specimen of Aviceda known from Palawan. It is my belief that this bird (figured in color by Whitehead, 1890: pi. 2) is albinistic, and that there is no definite evidence that the Icucopias coloration represents a normal "immature" plumage of magnirostris as described by Delacour and Mayr. Truly "immature" specimens of Aviceda of any species are rare in collections, and examination of the entire series of this genus in the American Museum suggests that this is because such plumages are held very briefly, unlike the situation in many other Accipitridae. Two juvenile specimens of A. jerdoni ceylonensis in the American Museum are similar to definitively plumaged adults, but have the feathers of back, crown, wing coverts, etc, edged With white, and the upper breast streaked longitudinally. It seems very unlikely that A. J. magnirostris, of which the adults rather closely resemble other subspecies, would have a juvenal plumage as radically different as that represented by leucopias. As mentioned above, other Aviceda hold the juvenal plumage only briefly  the type of leucopias is, in part, badly worn and bleached to an extent that juvenile Aviceda would not normally have time to attain before molting. It thus seems probable that the tye of leucopias represents a "dilute" or albinistic adult female. The fate of the name depends on whether a case can be made for two subspecies of Aviceda jerdoni in the Philippines,
The presence of the small island of Romblon in the list of Philippine localities from which Aviceda has been taken rests on the record of Bourns and Worcester (1894: 33), who reported Baza leucopais Sharpe" from Romblon and Samar. These authors had not seen the unique type of leticopias, and identified their specimens from descriptions only. Their single Romblon specimen is now in the collection of Carnegie Museum (no. 137904). It is not an Aviceda at all, but an immature female Spilornis cheela, collected September T, 1892, just seven days before Bourns and Worcester collected an adult female
