220
TII5YOID GLAND.
The only case of disease of this gland was one of general symmetrical enlargement occurring in a woman who had suffered from tuberculosis. Colloid formation was the principal change associated with several small cysts. The thryoid glands were otherwise quite small, often showing irregular lobulations. No instances of accessory thryoids were encountered.
NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Degeneration of the vagus and phrenic nerves were demonstrated in one case of beriberi which caused death in an infant of 3 months. 2
Lesions of the central nervous system included one case of cerebellar abscess following otitis media, one of cerebral softening and one of haemorrhage following an occipital fracture.
The meningeal coverings of the two cerebral hemispheres in a case of arterio-sclerosis were adherent and thickened, and inclosed numerous small collections of clear fluid in cyst-like, flattened spaces within the opaque membranes. Microscopically, this thickened layer of adherent membrane showed a richly interlacing meshwork of fibers, in the spaces of which there were many large polyhedral cells with large, deeply staining nuclei and granular protoplasm. The blood supply was poor, the walls of the vessels showing an advanced grade of atheroma.
No gross syphilitic disturbances of the central nervous system were encountered.
GENITALIA.
Disease of the male generative system was uncommon. There was one case of scrotal and one of prostatic abscess. Three cases of hydrocele on the left side were encountered. Tubercular cystitis occurred in three cases, nontubercular in one.
The cutaneous lesions included 1 case of Impetigo contagiosa, 1 of leucoderma, and i of chronic ulceration. The ulcers in 3 cases were confined to the ventral aspect of the leg and in the fourth an ulcer 4 centimeters in diameter was present on the dorsal surface of the right elbow.
One case of supernumerary thumb was. seen. The two thumbs were of equal size, each 1 centimeter shorter and smaller in proportion than the normal thumb on the left hand. They formed a Y-shaped junction at their union, being articulated side by side, with separate surfaces at the end of each of the two metacarpals. Each thumb was well formed and bore a perfect nail.
This case was reported by Dr. Albert at the Fifth Annual Meeting of the Philippine Islands Medical Association, Manila, February 26-29, 1908.

