1 20 Dipterocarpaceae. [Doona. veins numerous, slender, inconspicuous, pellucid, with minute reticulations between, margins at base usually rigidly revolute, giving a rhomboidal form to the leaf, petiole ^ in., slender, curved ; fl. \ in. diam., panicles few-fld., lax, axillary and terminal, shorter than or scarcely exceeding 1., ped. ^ in., glabrous ; sep. obtuse, glabrous ; pet. oval, obtuse, entire or notched at tip, minutely silky outside ; appendage as long as anth. ; ov. glabrous ; enlarged fruit-sep. 1 1/4 in., wings obovate oblong, obtuse, twisted, with about 10 inconspicuous veins; nut quite concealed by enlarged base of sep., sharply pointed. Lower montane zone and upper zone of moist low country, 10004000 ft.; common and formerly much more so. Fl. March-May; pale rose colour or quite white. The enlarged sep., when half grown, a brilliant crimson. Endemic. A characteristic tree of the lower hill-forests, now much cleared. The mode of branching horizontally chiefly at the top, and the preference of the tree for the crests of hills, which causes their outlines to stand out against the sky, gives the tree at a distance much the appearance of the Stone Pine of Italy. The timber is light, moderately hard, pale greyish-brown, durable, and greatly in request for shingles, whence the tree is often called • shingle-tree.' It burns with a bright flame. An excellent colourless Dammar-like resin exudes from the trunk. 

2. D. affinis, Thw. Enum. 35 (1858). C. P. 3409. Fl. B. Ind. i. 311. A large tree, twigs glabrous ; 1. 2-2^ in., lanceolate, rounded at base, caudate-acuminate, rather thick, drooping, lat, veins numerous, inconspicuous, much arched, midrib channelled above, margin revolute at base and slightly recurved throughout ; fl. drooping, articulated on rather long ped., in axillary and terminal panicles about as long as 1., nearly \ in. diam. ; sep. oblong, obtuse, very resinous ; pet. silky on back ; appendage about \ length of anth. ; enlarged fruit-sep. rather less than \\ in., wings broadly oblong spathulate. Moist low country; very rare. Singhc Raja Forest, April 1S55; Kokawita, Kukul Korale, 1892 (Lewis). Endemic. Fl. March ; creamy-white. More material is required for the satisfactory determination of this species. C. P. 3712 was accidentally referred to this by Thwaites (Enum. 402), and the description in Fl. H. Ind. is taken from that C. P. number (which is from Lihinigala, Hewesse, collected in March, 1861). The specimens are in young bud, and differ from D. ajjinis in the venation of the leaves, which is intermediate between that of D. venulosa Thw. and D. oblonga to one of which species they belong.
