204 GARRISON.
Therefore, the conclusion would appear to be warranted that infection with lung flukes is not evenly distributed throughout the Philippines, as appears to be the case with the parasites above considered, but that it is to be found chiefly in the southern portions of the Archipelago.
It is quite within the bounds of probability that the distribution of this parasite may be found to be even more strictly localized. To the best of our knowledge, all cases of paragonimiasis reported for the Philippines, in which the history of previous residence was known, have originated in the southern part of the Islands, and further investigation may show the infection to be confined to this region. The possibility can not be excluded that the infection is limited more or less strictly to certain of these southern islands. Some indication of this was found in our own figures. For instance, 239 prisoners from the Island of Leyte were examined and 6 had paragonimiasis; 127 prisoners from the Island of Samar gave four infections with lung flukes ; on the other hand, while 248 prisoners from Panay were examined, no fluke infections occurred. However, until the matter has been further investigated, we believe that the only generalization justified by our results is as already stated  namely, that paragonimiasis prevails in the southern rather than in the northern parts of the Philippines.
INFECTIONS WITH SCHISTOSOMA JAPONICUM. (06 per cent)
The use of the specific name seems desirable in the present case in order to differentiate Schistosoma japonicum from S. haematobium, all of our infections being with the former species.
Geographical distribution. — As in the case of Paragonimus, the apparently uneven geographical distribution of Schistosoma infections appears to be of greater interest and importance than the actual percentage of infection found among the prisoners examined. The cases of schistosomiasis were distributed geographically as follows  Manila, 1 ; Samar, 6; Leyte, 5; and Mindanao, 4. Therefore, excepting the one case from Manila, all infections with Schistosoma appear to have originated on the three southern islands, Samar, Leyte, and Mindanao.
INFECTIONS WITH OPISTHORCHIS.
(03 per cent)
Racial and geographical distribution. — In only five of the eleven cases of opisthorchiasis could a definite history of previous residence be obtained. Three of these came from the Island of Mindanao, one from

