FISHERY RESOURCES OF THE PHILIPPINES, I. 517
THE POMPANOS. Family Caranyidw. (PI. VII)
There are thirty-six different species of the pompano family' known in the Philippines. All of them are valuable commercial fishes. The cavallas (Caranx) are the most important branch of the family. They are termed talahitoh in Tagalog and daingputi in Moro. These fish are very abundant in almost all markets. They range from 33 to 36 centimeters in length. As a Iule they are caught in corrals.
Another abundant species is the Uson Gamnx ignobilis (Forskal). These fish are dried in large numbers by the Moros. The ballangoan. termed cuhal-cuhal Megalaspis cordyla Linn) is another very abundant food fish of fine flavor, belonging to this family. These are reported to reach the length of 155 centimeters; ordinarily those in the market measure about 45 centimeters. They are caught in corrals.
THE SEA BASSES. Family Serranidae. (PI. VIII)
There are thirty-three Species of this important family of food fish reported from the Philippines. One of the most familiar is the apahap (taxon in Moro) Lacs calcarifer (Bloch), one of our largest sea basses. Specimens weighing from 25 to 35 kilos are frecpiently brought into the market. This fish would afford good sport for local anglers. The largest branch of the family is constituted by the groupers Epinephelus)  called lap-lap in Tagalog, garopa in Visayan, and kukkut in Moro. (PI. VIII) Ordinarily this name is given to the most common species, Epincphelus mcgraw Bloch, Ijut it is also a23plied to at least three others which closely resemble E. menu. These fish bring a high price in the Manila market; they are a favorite sea food for many Americans.
Another rather common species is the blue-spotted grouper Cephalopjiolis stiginatopomus (Richardson), which is especially abundant in the Zamboanga market. The fishes of this family are usually caught with hook and line in water of considerable depth; sometimes they are taken by net or corral. Gill-nets set in about 50 feet of water frequently quite good catches.
THE MULLETS. Family Muguidw. (PI. IX)
There are ten different species of mullet recorded from the Philippines, the most abundant being the banana (Mugil cephalus Linn). This fish can always be found in the market and when quite fresh and properly cooked is most delicious. It is very common throughout the entire Archipelago. The mullet is a strictly vegetable feeder-, and is usually

