9
Secondary coverts blackish mottled and edged with pale buff. Tail blackish, edged with pale buff. Bill pale bluish; legs flesh pink, nails slightly darker; irides very pale yellow. Length, 5 inches; wing, 280; tail, 093; culmen, 041; depth of bill at angle of gonys, 023; tarsus, 066; middle toe with claw, 071.
This bird is known to us from the type specimen purchased in the market where it was found with others of the same genus. It is readily distinguishable from any other Luzon Turnix by its very deep, short bill. Sphexocercus FOIIMOS Swinh. ; Salvadori, Cat. Bds, XXI, p. 13, PL L
Fairly abundant on Calayan, where it is called "pu-nai' a name used for Osmotreron in many of the Philippine Islands. This bird may be distinct from the Formosa species, which is said to occur in the mountains of that country, but I can find nothing in our series of a dozen skins to justify a separation, and a comparison will be necessary for final identification. The genus is new to the Philippines.
Leucotreron leclancheri (Bp).
Three specimens from Calayan agree with some from Luzon and Mindoro. Shy and difficult to obtain.
Carpophaga nuchalis Cab; Grant, Ibis, 1896, p. 487 (Fuga) ; Whitehead, Ibis, 1899, p. 487.  Both Grant and Whitehead were very sure that the single specimen which they had from Fuga was distinct from C. miliaris of Luzon. Our four skins from Fuga and Cagayan are alike and base a dark-purplish nuchal band. With no Luzon material at hand for comparison it is necessary to let these stand as nuchalis. Fairly common on Fuga and abundant on Calayan.
About the middle of November these birds collect in large flocks, sonu-times numbering 100 or more. They are easily killed if they can to pass near one, but when feeding or resting in trees they take fright at the first sign of danger. All specimens killed were extremely fat, so that good skins were out of the question. Name on Calayan, 'balu'
COLUMBA GRISEIGULARIS (Wald. and Layard).
A few were seen in the tops of the heaviest timber. One killed was so fat that I made no attempt to get more.
MACROPYGIA PIILA, new species.
Specific characters. — Somewhat similar to M. tenuirostris Bp, but larger and much darker; the inner webs of first three primaries uniform, the others but narrowly, if at all, edged with rufous.
Type. — Xo. 3933, adult male, Philippine Museum Collection, Calayan Island, Babuyanes, P. I. Collected November 18, 1903, by R. C. McGregor and A. Celestino.
Description. — Upper parts, including wings and tail, blackish brown ; back and rump feathers with wide edges of very dark-bluish slate (these

