GEOLOGIC EECOXNAISSANOK OF MINDANAO AND SULU. 477
its nine or ten lakes and its high mountains. One of the latter. Mount Apo, 2,928 meters, is supposed to be the highest peak in the Archipelago
A glance at the map of Mindanao prepared by the Jesuits "will reveal the presence of four main tectonic lines, three of which run approximately north and south, and the fourth east and west. The first is the line following the crest of the range which extends jjaiallel to the long axis of the Zamboanga Peninsula; its direction is I. 20° E. The second seems most nearly to mark the eastward trend of this range; its direction is approximately . 85° W. Along this line are to be found Mount Sugarloaf, just north of Dumankilis Bay, Mount Dapan, a short distance southwest of Lake Lanao, Mounts Kalatungan and Latukan east of the lake, and Mount Agtunganon east of the Agusan River.
The next line is that which follows the Apo Range. This is very pronounced from Apo southward, but is not especially marked to the north. On this line are to be found Mount Apo, 2,928 meters, and Mount Matutun, which is doubtless somewhat lower.
The fourth, which is not as straight as the others, extends along the backbone of the country east of the Agusan River; its general direction is about K. 8° "W. No very important peaks exist along its extent.
The first of these four lines, which -follows the backbone of the Zamboanga Peninsula, is the most marked in that it extends northward through the Island of Istegros, coinciding exactly with the tectonic ILAE of that island and cuts across the lower part of the prong of Masbate, again coinciding with the long axis of Sorsogon and the Catanduanes. The Agusan line, by curving a little to the west, would fit closely with the tectonic lines of Leyte, Masbate, and Tayabas. There is no question but that there is a definite and fairly uniform system of folding and fracturing tlirougliout the Archijjelago, tlie various islands representing the irregular crests of the anticlines while the intervening straits mark the synclines.
There are no erj large rivers in the western part of Mindanao, although a fair-sized river follows along the central line of the Zamboanga Peninsula, and two short, swift streams also exist, one of them, the Agus, draining Lake Lanao and emptying into Iligan Bay after a run of about 30 kilometers, and the other, the Mataling River, drawing part of its water from Dapan Lake and part from the northern slopes of the Kulingtang Range. A different condition exists in other parts of Mindanao.
The Rio Grande cle Mindanao, over 300 kilometers long, is the second largest river in the Philippine Archipelago. Its course is from north to south until within a short distance of Lake Liguasan where it turns sharply to the west, emptying into Illana Bay. Tliis river is navigable
78322 — — 5

