NUMBER 367
45
1978), and Vitrina (coral-reef inhabitant), with one species, appear to be Pacific Plate endemic genera (Figure 60). The presence of Lentipes in the Ryukyus is based on a species described by Sakai and Nakamura (1979); its generic allocation should be verified.
Kelloggella was revised by Hoese (1975) and a new record added by Kuramochi (1980). Hoese (in litt) informed me of an additional species (undescribed) and of changes (pers. comm) in the reported distributions of two described species. The distribution of the five Kelloggella species is given in Figure 20. Except for endemic genera, Kelloggella is unique among fishes in having more Pacific Plate species than Indo-west Pacific species.
Among the reasonably well-known Indo-pacific goby genera that are excluded from the Pacific Plate is Gobiopsis (sensu stricto), with ten species (Lachner and Mckinney, 1978, 1979), which are often collected on coral reefs. Gobiopsis sensu stricto is distributed from southeastern Africa to the western margin of the Pacific Plate.
One of three species of Gobiopsis, not included in Gobiopsis sensu stricto, reaches from the Indo-west Pacific to the Gilbert Islands (Lachner and Mckinney, 1979). Signigobius, monotypic, also a reef inhabitant (Hoese and Allen, 1977), is distributed from the Philippine and Palau islands to the Great Barrier Reef and Solomon Islands, and is, thus, limited in the east by the margin of the Pacific Plate. Oxuderces, monotypic, a muddy bottom inhabitant, ranges from India to the Gulf of Carpentaria, Australia (Springer, 1978, and Australian Museum collections).
Feia was discussed by Lachner and Mckinney (1979). They recognized one species in the genus, but noted that their Indo-west Pacific specimens (Mozambique, Seychelles, Banda, and Great Barrier Reef) were separable from their Rapa Island (Pacific Plate) specimens, based on meristics and pigmentation, indicating that two taxa are possibly involved.
Eviota comprises about 60 species of diminutive coral-reef gobies, all restricted to the Indo-Pacific (S. Jewett, pers. comm). Lachner and
Figure 20. — Distributions of the species of the gobiid fish genus Kelloggella (new species" pel
D.F. Hoese, in litt).

