ix, d, 4 Cowles: Palaemons of the Philippine Islands 351
ters are meant the gaping of the fingers, the proportionately larger teeth on the fingers, the exceedingly long chelipeds, and the roughness of carapace, pleura, sixth abdominal somite, and telson.
All specimens of P. philippinensis in our collection possess fingers which are shorter than the palm, the next to the smallest male (No. la) showing a proportion of 1122 and one of the largest males (No.
30) a proportion of 1191.
In general, as the body grows larger the palm increases in length at a greater rate than the fingers.
A similar but much less marked proportional increase occurs in the females.
The fingers of P. philippinensis show no signs of the long hairs or of the felted hairs which are characteristic of P. nipponensis and P. carcinus, respectively, but all specimens in the collection possess a few scattered tufts of hair, which do not obscure the underlying structures in the least.
The teeth, which have been described above as present on the fingers of a large male, can be seen in the youngest males and females only with a high-power magnifying lens.
They soon increase in size as the animal grows larger (90 millimeters), and become visible to the naked eye.
In the small males (No.
3 and others that have taken on the mature form and which for convenience I have called young mature males) the teeth are conspicuous, their size being in proportion to the length of the cheliped.
Two teeth on the mobile finger and 1 tooth (the distal) on the immobile finger are present in the youngest males and females (Nos. la and 32).
In females and "males feminises" of the size of No.
19 the small teeth back of the proximal tooth on the immobile finger are just beginning to form.
The tips of the fingers curve inward at all ages and meet, except in the largest males and sometimes in the young mature males, where the immobile finger curves in much less and extends beyond the mobile finger.
In small males, in "males "feminises" and in all the females with the possible exception of No.
39, the fingers do not gape when closed, but in young mature males and especially in the old males the gaping is conspicuous.
A keellike cutting edge is found on both fingers of all males and females.
This is rather high and sharp in young males (including "males feminises" and young mature males of smaller size)  but it decreases in height markedly with increasing body length in the young mature males and less rapidly in the "males feminises" and females.
In the large males Nos.
30 and 31 and the older young mature males Nos.
23 and 26, the keel is reduced to an inconspicuous raised line which can be seen only with a magnifying lens.
The tubercles
129877 3
