516 SEALE.
THE MUD FISHES. Family Opliioccphalida. (Pi. V)
The mud fishes, dalag (dalah in Moro), are of considerable importance, especially in the vicinity of Manila where they form a large part of the food of the native population. They are usually sold alive in the markets. In fact, it is their ability to stay alive out of water that attracts attention to them. They are primarily a fresh-or brackish-water fish, and after a rain almost all the little pools by the wayside, as Mell as the paddies and rivers are well filled with dalag. They have the habit of burying themselves in the mud as the ponds drj-up and thus of lying dormant until the next rain. They take the hook free), and it is no imcommon sight to see the natives fishing for them in the rice-fields, or in the most unlikely and recently formed pools. They frequently travel overland in the wet grass and can live for hours out of water. The eggs are deposited in holes in the bank; the mother exercises a care over the young fish.
In India these are regarded as one of the most wholesome fishes and are given to invalids. In Manila they are looked upon more as scavengers andre not much eaten by the Americans. These mud fish are distinctly carnivorous, feeding on small fish, refuse, etc. They are well distributed over the Islands, being found in almost all the lakes and rivers.
THE s-vprers. Family Lutiankhc. (PI. VI)
There are about twenty different species of this family in the Philippine waters, all of them important as food fishes. They range when full grown from 35 to 90 centimeters in length. They are distributed over the entire group), some running up rivere to the interior lakes to feed. Several of the species are bright red in color and are called red snappers, one of the most abundant being the bataan Lutianus dodecacanthus (Bleeker). Another snapper called the lamangbuhu (Lutianus ftisccsccns Cuv. et Val) can usually le found in the markets,  especially in Zamboanga. A very important member of the family is the aids (katumhang in Moro) (Lutianus gcmbra Bloch et Schn). These are caught in great numbers in the Tanjan Kiver at Bates, Mindoro. The adults weigh from 8 to 20 pounds each. I saw 108 of these fish caught in one-half day at the Bates corral.
The best banks for red snapper fishing seem to be in the -vicinity of Zamboanga. Dapa and manager are other Moro names applied to the red snapper. They are usually caught by hook and line, or in the corral. In Zamboanga a red snapper 3-5 centimeters long can be bought for 40 centavos.

