XIII, A. 6 King: Philippine Coir and Coir Cordage 333
coir ropes broke their moorings during severe tropical storms and were carried high on the beach. As a result the Filipinos have learned that, while coir and other cheap ropes made of maguey, bamboo, etc, may serve for everyday use, abaca rope is the most dependable for emergencies.
Mr. Don Strong, fiber expert of the Bureau of Agriculture, relates that in 1912 the small steamer Camiguin, 53 tons gross, ran on a coral reef off the Masbate coast while loaded with abaca fiber. Mr. Strong, who was on board, secured the assistance of a lighthouse tender, whose captain first passed a new 12-inch coir rope to the Camiguin. An attempt was made to pull off the steamer, with the result that the coir rope began to stretch excessively, visibly became reduced in diameter, and finally parted at several places. During the attempt not the slightest tremor passed through the reef-bound vessel. A 7-inch abaca rope was then made fast to the Camiguin and after a single attempt the steamer was successfully pulled off the reef into deep water.
When a coir rope breaks there is very little reaction, for the rupture occurs almost imperceptibly. On the other hand, an abaca rope made of good grade fiber -gives a sharp report at the instant of rupture and violent reaction occurs which, in the case of ropes having a circumference of 75 millimeters or more, jars and shakes the testing machines. This violent reaction is due to the giving back of a relatively large amount of potentially stored resilient energy. Coir is not used at all in Manila at the present time, due to the unsatisfactory results that have been obtained. Cordage made of abaca, of which there are numerous grades, has supplanted the little for that was once used. Even though abaca rope costs considerably more than coir cordage, the more expensive fiber is the more economical in the end. Abaca is much stronger, less bulky, more reliable, and much more elastic and resilient than for. I have inquired for coir cordage in several places in Manila, but was unable to get quotations or even to see a specimen. Even the small Chinese retailers who handle the most unexpected kinds of merchandise did not have supplies of coir rope, though other nonstandard fiber cordage was procurable. Among the latter, small coils of rope made of the black stiff fiber locally called "cabo negro" obtained from a palm (Arenga saccharifera)  were on sale in nearly all of the Chinese stores dealing in fiber products. Unless the difference in price of coir and abaca rope is large enough to create a demand for the former on the basis of price alone, coir cordage will never find extensive sale.

