1893.] G. King -Materials for a Flora of the Malaysian peninsula. 111 at one side, glabrous inside and on one half outside, pubescent on the other. Stamens 15, in 3 rows; all the filaments broad those of the outer two rows shorter than those of the inner: anthers short, broadly ovate, inappendiculate. Ovary conical, pale tomentose: style short, stigma small. Fruit (perhaps not mature) ovoid, apiculate, minutely pale tomentose, .6 in. long. Sepals all enlarged, membranous, reti-culate, concave at the base; the three outer narrowly oblong, obtuse, very little narrowed to the base, 7-nerved, 2.75 in. long and .75 in. broad; the two inner .8 in. long, linear, about 1-nerved. Penang: Curtis, No. 1396. A species known only from penang, and collected only by mr. Curtis: remarkable for its almost recomose inflorescence, and curiously glandular leaves. 3. Shorea Curtisii, Dyer MSS. in Herb. Kew. A tree 100 to 150 feet high; young branches slender, at first minutely stellate-puberulous, ultimately dark-coloured and glabrous. Leaves coriaceous, oblong-lanceolate, bluntly acuminate; the base sub-cuneate, or almost rounded; upper surface of young leaves minutely pubescent, of adults glabrescent or quite glabrous, the lower uniformly covered with very minute rufescent (young), or pale (adult) tomentum: main nerves 10 to 14 pairs, ascending, rather straight, prominent beneath: length 3 to 4 in., breadth 1.2 to 1.4 in., petiole .4 to .6 in. Panicles axillary or terminal, 2 to 3 in. long, the rachis slender, glabrous. Flowers about .3 in. long distichous secund rows of 4 or 5, on the short lateral branchlets, enveloped while in bud by broad deciduous puberulous bracts. Sepals ovate, tomentose outside, glabrous inside, slightly un-equal. Petals twice as long as the calyx, linear-oblong, obtuse, stellate-pubescent outside, glabrous inside. Stamens 15, in three rows; the filaments elongate, broad (those of the outer row longest); anthers short, ovoid-globose, not apiculate. Ovary elongated ovoid, tomentose in the upper, glabrous in the lower half: style short, stigma small. Ripe fruit narrowly ovoid, apiculate, .75 in. long, pale tomentose; calyx-wings all enlarged and membranous, free from the fruit: the three outer linear-oblong, 8-nerved, 2.25 in. long, and about .5 in. broad; the two inner about 1 in. long, bluntly spathulate and with fewer nerves. Penang: Curtis, Nos. 427, 1394 and 1395. Perak: King's Collector, No. 8143. The vernacular name of this in Penang is Maranti Tai. 4. Shorea sericea, Dyer in Hook. fil. Flo. Br. Ind., I., 306. A tree 50 to 60 feet high; young branches rugulose, warted and scurfily J. II. 15 
