J 893.] G. King — Materials fur a Flora of the Malayan Peninsula. 99 that the D. costahis described by Roxburgh is a different plant from Gaertner's. For Mr. Dyer it is still a doubtful species ; while M. De Candolle reduces it to I), angustifolius W. & A., which for Dyer is in its turn a doubtful species. A careful examination of the material now collected at Calcutta and at Kew leads me to believe that D. costatus, Gaertn., is a perfectly good species, and that the best character to distinguish it from Roxburgh's D. alatus is the narrowness of the wings of the calyx-tube. Specimens collected in Burmah by Kurz (No. 113 of his Herbm.) and by Brandis, have fruits exactly like that figured by Gaertner. Moreover I see no reason for thinking that the tree describ-ed by Roxburgh (Fl. Ind. II; 614) as D. costahis, Graertn., is anything else than Gaertner's plant. Mr. Dyer (Journ. Bot. 1874, p. 153) ex-presses the opinion that D. Lemeslei, Vesque — a species collected on the island of Pulo Condor off the Cambodian coast — is reducible to D. alatus, Roxb. It is very doubtful whether D. alatus, Roxb., occurs in the Anda-mans. I have seen no specimens of it from these islands, and I give it as an Andaman plant on the authority of the " Flora of British India." Besides the preceding, there are various other species of Dipterocarpus in the Calcutta Herbarium from localities within the British Malayan region which, for want of sufficient materials, I am unable to describe. Chief amongst these are : — (1) Curtis ISTo. 1560 from Penang, a species with winged calyx-tube. (2) A species from Perak, represented in Scortechini's collection (without number) by fruits resembling those of D. Loioii H., f., D. intri-catus, Dyer, and D. lamellatus, Hook. fil. (3) A species from the Andamans with leaves resembling those of D. Griffithii, Miq., but with globular fruit which has neither angles nor wings on the calyx-tube. This possibly may be a form of D. pilosus, Roxb. (4) A Perak species (Herb. Scortechini mixed with No. 147S) re-presented by fruits something like those of D. fagineus, Vesque, but with the calyx-tube winged, not angled. (5) A Perak species represented by leaf-twigs and loose fruit of a species resembling both D. fagineus, Vesque, and D. gracilis, Bl., but differing from both. (6) A species from Perak (Wray No. 4031) having leaves like D. Griffithii, Miq., but with shorter petioles, and having also fruit rather like D. Griffithii, but the calyx-tube Avith nanwver wings, and the minor calyx-lobes smaller. 
