from the Philippine Islands. 93
Head, including rostrum, bright-yellow; antennae and palpi brownish-yellow. Collare velvet-black; thoracic dorsum black (the usual three stripes being confluent); moderately shining; a large yellow spot each side on the humeri; a smaller one between the thoracic suture and the black scutellum; metanotum with a broad brownish -black longitudinal stripe in the middle; yellow on the sides. Pleurae brownish-black, with several yellow spots: a large one between the root of the wings and the collare; a smaller one near the root of the halteres; a third one above the middle coxae. Halteres yellow. Coxae black, legs brown. Abdomen black; basal half of segments 2 — 4 yellow; at the base of the fifth segment also, some yellow is visible; the segment bearing the ovipositor, and the narrow one which precedes it, are yellowish-ferruginous. Wings with a pale brownish tinge, more saturate in the costal cell; stigma brown; second post. c. in contact with the distal. — One female.
Pachyrrhina ortiva n. sp. . Black thoracic stripes confluent; collare yellow in the middle; metanotum yellow, with a black spot posteriorly; abdomen black, with yellow crossbands on segments 2 — 3. Length about 13 mm. (without vii) —
Head and rostrum bright orange-yellow; a well defined deep black spot on the occiput; antennae yellow, joints of the flagellum, except the first, black at base. Collare yellow in the middle, black on the sides; the usual thoracic stripes coalescent, shining black; a large yellow humeral triangle, has its lower hind angle cut off by the humeral furrow; a small yellow spot between the thoracic suture and the scutellum. Metanotum yellow; a large black transverse spot on its hind margin. Pleurae mixed of black and yellow, the black forming an irregular triangle in the middle. Halteres brownish-red. Abdomen black; segments 2 — 5 yellow, each with a large semi-circular spot (or crossband attenuated on each side) occupying the whole hind margin ; the segment bearing the ovipositor and the narrow segment preceding it, are yellowish-ferruginous. Coxae yellow, with more or less black at the base, especially on the last pair. Legs more or less dark tawny; tips of femora and tibiae brown. Wings with a pale brownish tinge, which is more saturate in the costal cell and more diluted beyond the stigma; a slight brown shadow at the tip; stigma brown; Petiole of the second post. c. very short. — Two females.
NB. At first sight, this species is very like the preceding one; it will be easily distinguished by the color of the metanotum and collare and other characters.
Ctenophora suspirans n. sp. . — Wings brown, with a white spot in the middle; scutellum black. — Length 14 — 15 mm.

