REPORT OF THE COMMISSIONER OF FISHERIES. 23
in salt water, and it is the intention to devote another winter to that phase of the field work.
Progress has been made in the study of the great collections obtained by the Albatross during the Philippine cruise of 1907-1910. Eminent specialists have undertaken to report on the various groups of aquatic animals, and a number of preliminary papers have already been issued.
MARINE BIOLOGICAL LABORATORIES.
The laboratories of the Bureau at Woods Hole, Mass, and Beaufort, N, C, were open during the usual season in the summer and fall of
1910. They were reopened somewhat earlier than usual in June,
1911, in order to accommodate investigators and to afford facilities for the study of subjects which could be considered to best advantage at that time.
The investigators at the laboratories are of two categories: Those temporarily or permanently in the employ of the Bureau, and independent workers who are merely furnished facilities for carrying on their researches. The former conduct many investigations with more or less bearing on the economic side of the Bureau's work, while the latter often, though not always, select for study subjects of more remote application. Some of the temporary employees carry their investigations to a point where they are economically available, but most of them merely reach a stage in which the basis is laid for future practical adaptation. The contributions to knowledge annually made by the laboratories are considerable. The Bureau, as a rule, publishes those immediately applicable to its work, and the results of all researches are available for its use if required. During the past season the laboratories were generally tested to their full capacity, and some valuable results were attained.
ALASKA FISHERIES SERVICE.
The sundry civil bill approved March 4, 1911, provided for the establishment of the Alaska Fisheries Service, to include the fur-seal service, the salmon fisheries and other fisheries of Alaska, and the fur-bearing animals of Alaska, all of which had been previously administered by the Division of Inquiry Respecting Food Fishes. As this new division was not formally organized until July 1, 1911, detailed explanation of its functions and organization will be reserved for the 1912 annual report.
SALMON AND OTHER FISHERIES.
The usual corps of agents were engaged in the inspection of the salmon fisheries of Alaska, and their vigilance has enforced very general observance of the law. The sentiment against waste or need
