100 G. King — Materials for a Flora of the Malayan Peninsula. [No. 2, 2. Amsoptera, Korth. Resinous trees. Leaves coriaceous, entire, feather-veined and finely reticulate ; stipules small, fugacious or inconspicuous. Flowers in lax terminal panicles Calyx-tube very short, adnate to the base of the ovary; the segments imbricate, then subvalvate. Stamens oo; anthers ovoid with a long subulate connective, outer valves larger. Ovary 3-( rarely 4-5-) celled ; style fleshy, ovoid or oblong, with an attenuate 3-5-fid apex ; ovules 2 in each cell. Fruit adnate to the calyx-tube, in-dehiscent, 1-seeded, crowned by the accrescent calyx-segments, of which 2 form linear-oblong lobes. Cotyledons fleshy, unequal ; radicle superior. — Distrib. Malay Peninsula and Archipelago to New Guinea. Species about 6. ]. Anisoptera Curtisii, Dyer MSS. A tree 80 to 120 feet high: young branches slender, minutely scurf y-tomentose. Leaves oblong, tapering to both ends, the apex sub-acute or acute, the base narrowed but rounded ; the upper surface glabrous, shining, the lower densely ochra-ccous-lepidote and sparsely stellate-pubescent; main nerves 18 to 20 pairs, spreading : length 2 to 3 -5 in., breadth '75 to 1 25 in., petiole .5 to .75 in. Accrescent calyx-lobes 3'5 to 4"5 in. long, linear-spathulate, shining. 3-nerved : the transverse veins bold and numerous. Penang : Curtis. Perak : King's Collectors. Var. latifolia : leaves broadly elliptic, blunt, the bases rounded but narrowed. Penang : Curtis, No. 1400. The vernacular name of this in Penang is Ringkong. 3. Vatica, Linn. Large or moderately sized resinous trees. Leaves coriaceous, entire, feather-veined and finely reticulate ; stipules small, fugacious or incon-spicnous. Flotvers in axillary and terminal panicles, usually tomentose before expansion. Calyx-tube short, free, or adnate to the base of the ovary; segments somewhat acute, imbricate, then sub-valvate. Stamens 15 ; anthers oblong, external valves larger, connective apiculate. Ovary 3-celled ; style short, subulate, or apex clavate or capitate; stigma entire or 3-toothed ; ovules 2 in each cell. Fruit leathery, indehiscent, 1-seeded, surrounded by and sometimes partly adnate to the accrescent, membranous, nerved and reticulate calyx-lobes, two of which expand into narrow wings 2 or 3 in. long, the other three being much smaller. Cotyledons fleshy. Distrib. Tropical Asia and chiefly Malaya ; species about 10. Synaptea is a genus established by Griffith (Notulse IV., 516, Tab. 585 A, fig V.) for a tree collected at Mergui, and named by him Synap-
