246 The Philippine Journal of Science i9i8
sional scales of lighter and darker color. Wing membranes darker with numerous (usually) roundish spots of bluish to yellowish green, the outer edge light salmon washed with gray. Head with the interorbital dark spot; the nuchal spot absent; dark markings either present or absent on the sides of the head. Below, belly and wing membranes salmon to brick-red, usually with only one large or small dark spot in the outer margin of wing ; gular appendage canary yellow at tip, the remainder bright purple to wine color with a green wash at base ; throat and chin with darker reticulations; belly with very dim reticulations of darker color either present or absent.
The males can make extremely rapid changes of color. They change from light to dark green, then to black or reddish brown in less than a minute and vice versa. When the brown specimens are placed in alcohol, the green returns largely and when fixed is blue green to blue, the salmon largely disappearing below. In consequence of the color changes the head markings vary considerably in preserved specimens.
The species was abundant in the coconut groves near the mountains in Zamboanga. Specimens were also taken on Bongao and Simonor. On the latter island they were especially numerous in the coconut trees. With the aid of the Small a large series was collected in the village of Tubig Indangan. The species was seen in Jolo, but no specimens were acquired.
Draco bimaculatus Giinther. Plate II, figs. 1 and 2,
A single specimen was obtained in the mountains near Zamboanga (city)  It is the smallest species of the genus found in the Islands. It was also observed in Tawitawi. The paper-white gular appendage and the slender body render it easily identified at a considerable distance.
Draco cornutus Giinther.
This species has been reported from Jolo by Werner I failed to find it there.
Mabuya multifasciata Gray.
Specimens were taken in Zamboanga, Bubuan (Tapiantana Group), Jolo, Bubuan (Tapian Group), Papahag, and Bongao. Specimens from the last two localities have a broad brilliant brick-red stripe beginning behind the eye and continuing some distance along the side. It is present in both sexes. Those found on the other islands sometimes have an orange or light spot laterally, but it is absent in females.
'Mitt. Natur. Mits. Hamb. (1910), 27 (2), 9.
