164 FIELDIANA: ZOOLOGY, VOLUME 51
the lower throat pale, whitish grey (without any yellowish wash) becoming darker toward the sides of the throat; size larger.
Wing cf (10), 55-57 (av.
556 mm); culmen (10), 135-15 (av.
14 mm).
Range.
— Camiguin South Island, 1,000-2,500 feet altitude.
Remarks.
— Most races of this species in Philippines have wing 48-53 mm; but there are two larger subspecies, the present one (see above) and sihuyanicum wing 54-57 mm, both small island species.
Zosterops nigrorum
Mees, 1957, Zool.
Verh.
Rijk.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist.
Leiden, No.
35, pp. 160-170; Mayr, 1967, Peter's Check-list of Birds of the World, 12, pp. 299, 300.
This is the only species of Zosterops in the Philippines that has completely yellow underparts.
It is a species of large and small islands: large islands in the north, and the western central islands — Luzon, Mindoro, Masbate, Panay, and Negros; a very few scattered small islands — Camiguin North (north of Luzon); and a few small islands in the central Philippines with southern outposts on Cagayancillo (west of Negros, in Sulu Sea) and Camiguin South in Mindanao Sea.
The relationships of this species are not clear, but the general appearance of the various subspecies, and their differences from other species, in appearance and range, seem to indicate a natural group, forming an endemic Philippine species, as treated in recent revisions.
Up until now the known ranges of the related everetti, with underparts partly grey or white as well as yellow, and nigrorum have been allopatric.
However, on Camiguin South Rabor found both species, everetti at low altitudes and nigrorum at higher altitudes.
This is the only locality where both species occur.
(It may be recalled that the old records of Z. everetti siquijorensis for Negros are in error, surely due to a mis-identification of specimens of Z. montana pectoralis)
Seven subspecies of Z. nigrorum are recognized in the following, and are arranged in three groups.
Group I. — Four races, generally bright to moderately bright in coloration; eye ring complete; little or no black or dusky in side of head; size smaller; wing cf 50-56 mm.
Zosterops nigrorum meyleri Mcgregor
agfecamiguin North.
Diagnosis.
— A small race, separable from all other races by wide, complete eye ring, especially wide below the eye, according to Mees
