ix, d, 4 Cowles: Palaemons of the Philippine Islands 353
by Coutiere, 29 and I believe that large series of P. idae Heller 30 and P. rudis Heller 31 will show the same thing.
The merus, which is flattened dorsoventrally along the proximal part, becomes almost cylindrical in cross section and of greater diameter at the distal part.
As in other palaemons, the merus grows more rapidly than the ischium.
While Table II shows that there is some variability in the proportion between the merus and ischium when a series of specimens is arranged according to increasing body length, it may also be seen that when the measurements for young mature males are separated from the rest this variability is much reduced.
The description of the shape of the ischium given for the largest male applies to specimens of all ages and sexes.
The chelipeds of young specimens show spines on the palm and anterior part of the carpus, but the "linear spaces" are not distinguishable.
The covering of spines increases as the animals become larger, but it is not until they have reached about the middle size that the spines become apparent on the fingers and ischium.
The "linear spaces" then show clearly.
Third, fourth, and fifth legs.
— The third legs are missing in specimen la.
One-quarter and two-fifths of the propodus extend beyond the tip of the antennal scale in the fourth and fifth legs, respectively.
The measurements for the propodus of the fifth leg are 016 millimeter in diameter at the middle and 7 milli-meters in length.
In No.
16 the third, fourth, and fifth legs extend with two-thirds, two-fifths, and one-fourth of the propodus, respectively, beyond the antennal scale.
The propodus of the fifth leg is 07 millimeter in diameter at the middle and 17 milli-meters in length.
A large specimen measuring 133 millimeters (not indicated in Table II) shows one-fourth of the propodus of the third leg extending beyond the antennal scale.
In this specimen the dactylus of the fourth leg extends beyond the scale, while in the fifth leg merely the tip of the dactylus overreaches the scale.
The propodus of this leg is 19 millimeters in length, and 1 millimeter in diameter at its middle point.
Telson.
— The armature of the telson varies with the size, but the difference may be due to wear.
In a young female 47 millimeters long (Plate II fig. 21) the tip of the telson is long, the externolateral spines are well developed, and the interno-lateral spines are very long, with almost three-fourths of their
"Ann.
Sci.
Nat, Zool.
(1900), 11, 314.
s " Sitzungsber.
Akad. d. Wiss, math-nat.
Klasse, Wien (1862), 45, 416.
sl Reise der Osterreichischen Fregatte Novara (1868), 2, 115.
