80 FORESTRY BUREAU with one or two very small ones intermediate. Corolla fixed on the receptacle, bellshaped almost as long as the calyx, deeply divided in five parts. Stamens, more than twenty, fixed on the receptacle. Filaments very short. Anthers long, awlshaped and without bristles. Ovary issues from receptacle. Style same length as statiiens. Stigma apparently divided into two parts. Nut globular (like a filbert) not joined to the calyx, but covered and very close to it and crowned with the parts of the same calyx, well developed, of which two are very large, and the other two alternate ones, short and rounded at the extremities.

See General Appendix — Dipterocarpeas.

Well-known tree, wood hard. It produces the resinous and odorous fluid known as Malapaho and Balao, which is used as a varnish.

It is common in Visayas and in many Tagal districts. The resin flows very abundantly. The parts of the calyx which have the appearance of big wings arc five inches long. The tree called Hagachac in Leyte produces an odorous, resinous fluid similar to this but it is not the same. Where the trees are plentiful the natives use this fluid for illuminating purposes. They pour this fluid into a joint of cane and light it, the resin and the cane being consumed at the same time.

Flowers in June. Blanco, p. 314, 2d ed. SUPA,

Sindora Wallichii, Benth. Fam. Leguminosae. SYNONYM— Supa, Tagalog. WHERE FOUND— Islands of Luzon, Leyte, Mindoro.

DESCRIPTION— Second Group. "Tree of the First Order. Color. — Dirty ochre yellow, which in time changes to a yellowish gray; there are also specimens of a reddish tint. Very similar to Ipil; it substitutes the Ipil in ordinary and naval construction but is less esteemed. It deserves special attention, for the engineer should know it well to distinguish it from Ipil and thus prevent frauds, which unfortunately are of frequent occurrence. In the two species which I have before me, I note that in the Ipil the pores are distributed over the entire surface of the rings, while in the Supa they are numerous at their termination and scarce in the other parts; the medullary radii line and more marked than in the other species. The color varies in both, but generally is more uniform in the Ipil. The Supa may sometimes have narrow grains of a dark gray color which extend along its entire length. It is abundant in the center and south of Luzon and in the Visayas. I do not know of any experiments made to determine its elasticity, maximum resistance, weight in the air and specific gravity. I cannot make this experiment for want of appropriate specimens. S. Vidal." 
