FISHERY RESOURCES OF THE PHILIPPINES, I. 515
for canning operations could be secured at an' of the following places: Manila, Jolo, Zamboanga, Sitanki, Puerto Princesa, and perhaps a dozen other places not yet examined. They abound at all seasons.
THE MACKERELS. Family Scombridae. (PI. IV)
There are at least eight different species of the mackerel family found in the Philippines, all of them good food fishes and of commercial importance. In this family is the tanguingue, also called tangili or tangi (Moro), which is a true Spanish mackerel Scomberomorus commersoni Lacepede)  By many people this is regarded as the finest food fish in the Philippine waters. This fish is fairly abundant, and can usually be found in the markets, where it sells from 1 to 4 pesos, Philippine currency (50 cents to 2 dollars United States currency) per fish. At Zamboanga it is nothing unusual to see ten or a dozen of these fish in the market at one time, all of them measuring 90 centimeters or more in length. They are frequently cut up and sold by slices. The major part of the tanguingue are caught off shore witli a hook and line, a good fishing ground being located off the east coast of Basilan. At Manila they are usually caught in nets. Another Spanish mackerel taken in these waters is Scomheromorus honam (Bleeker), which is scarcely distinguishable from the above.
Other important members of the family are the chub mackerels (alu-mahan or cavallas), Scomber microlepidotus Riippell, and the hasa-hasa (Scomber japonicus Houttuyn). These fish run in great shoals throughout the Islands, following small fish, upon which they feed. They enter Manila Bay in March and the inhabitants along the shore-line of the bay are kept awake during the nights by the noisy clatter of the fishermen beating with their paddles against the sides of their boats in order to frighten these much desired fish into the nets or hastily' constructed corrals.
Still other members of this family represented in these waters are the small bonitoes (lobed or iuliiujan) Gymnosarda pelamis (Linn), the great tunnies (also called sound), and the albacore Germo alalunga Bleeker)
All of these fish may be caught with hook and line, in nets or corrals. They are so abundant that it is unusual to make a trip among the Islands without sighting one or more shoals of fish belonging to this family. They are especially common about the Cuyo group and along the shores of Palawan. The market at Zamboanga is usually well stocked with all members of the family. They are with few exceptions fishes of the deep water. The purse-seine in my opinion could be profitably employed in their capture.

