280 FOXWORTHY. 

G. PARASHOREA Kurz, 

Calyx-tube very short, not enlarging. Sepals on the edge of a broad receptacle, almost valvate in bud. Stamens 12 to 15; anthers linear, on short filaments, the connective more or less prolonged; anther cells more or less unequal, the two posterior shortly beaked. Ovary free, hairy, 3-celled; style filiform. Fruit tomentose, acuminate. Five nearly equal wings narrowed below, not inclosing the fruit. In our species, the stipules are large, encircling the stem. Also, our species shows a distinct fold between the pairs of secondary nerves and is glaucous on the underside of the leaf and on the young twigs. The genus has three species, one from the Eastern Peninsula of India, one from Sumatra, and the third from Borneo and the Philippines. The bark of old trees is coarsely and deeply furrowed and dark-colored. Sapwood very light-colored; heartwood darker, often with a pinkish tinge. The wood is soft and moderately heavy and contains numerous resin-canals, filled with a whitish resin. Trees distinctly gregarious in habit, in moist forests. Pith with 15 resin-ducts. Petiole with 5 vascular bundles in the semicircle and just as many resin-canals, central bundle-mass with no resin-canals. 

1. Parashorea plicata Brandis in Journ. Linn. Soc. Bot. 31 (1895) 104; Merrill & Rolfe in Philip. Journ. Sci. 3 (1908) Bot. 114; Foxworthy in Philip. Journ. Sci. 4 (1909) Bot. 511, 516; Whitford in Philip. Journ. Sci. 4 (1910) Bot. 712, Philip. For. Bur. Bull. 10^2 (1911) 64, pls. 60, 61. P. warburgii Brandis l. c. 105. 

Large trees, 20 to 40 m tall and 1 to 2 m in diameter. Bark 1 to 2 cm thick, longitudinally furrowed, dark-brown to nearly black in color. Leaves glabrous and shining above, elliptic, 6 to 15 cm long, 5 to 8 cm wide, marked by a distinct fold between the secondary nerves, similar to what is seen in many species of Dipterocarpus. In the terminal bud the young leaves are completely inclosed within the amplexicaul stipules, and the tender leaf at that stage consists almost entirely of the closely approximate secondary nerves. Stipules deciduous. Flowers 2.5 cm long, on thick pedicels furrowed when dry, which are half the length of the sepals. Sepals lanceolate, slightly overlapping in bud, gray-tomentose outside, pubescent inside. Stamens 15 ; anthers linear, glabrous ; valves nearly equal, the two posterior bluntly apiculate; appendage of the con-nective longer than the anther, thick spindle-shaped, with a long point. Ovary-cells half-immersed in the broad obconical receptacle, narrowed into an elongate hairy stylopodium. The 3 outer wings of fruiting calyx broader, 8-or 9-nerved, with prominent reticulate veins between the longitudinal nerves, similar to the venation in the fruiting sepals of the other species of the genus. LUZON, Province of Nueva Ecija, For. Bur. 22346 Alvarez: Province of Bu-
