268 FOXWORTHY. 

mens 247, Feb. 1906, in flower: District of Zamboanga, For. Bur. 9042, 9184 Whitford & Hutchinson. Basilan, For. Bur. 4OO4 Hutchinson, Feb. 1906, with immature fruit, For. Bur. 4813 Hutchinson, July 1906, fruit. This species has been collected in flower in the months of January, February, March, April, May, June, and July, and in fruit in the months of February, April, June, July, August, September, October, and December. Native names: lauan (Tag.), balac (Cag. Negrito), apnit (Cag., Iloc), balocbac (Negrito), malaanonan (Tag.), danlig (V.).  2. Pentacme sp. Leaves broadly oblongs shortly and abruptly acuminate, base rounded; stipules 2 to 3 cm long, 7 to 8 mm wide, lanceolate or oblanceolate ; secondary nerves about 15 pairs. Young shoots, petioles and underside of leaves covered with a grayish tomentum. Wood soft and white, with much the same structure as that of P. contorta but finer-grained. Bark dark and fissured. A tree of the low flat forest near the beach. Luzon, Province of Tayabas, For, Bur. 10333 Curran. This form seems to show some points of resemblance to Pentacme siamensis Kurz. 

5. SHOREA Roxb. Large resinous trees; stipules in a few species large and persistent, in most small and early deciduous. Leaves chartaceous or coriaceous; secondary nerves prominent; tertiary nerves mostly parallel. Flowers as a rule in unilateral spikes or racemes, these distichous and regularly alternating on the branches of large axillary and terminal panicles. Each flower subtended by two, mostly deciduous, in a few species persistent and conspicuous, bracts. Sepals strongly imbricate, always hairy outside, and often inside also, on the margin of a broad obconical receptacle. Petals oblong, rarely ovate-oblong, hairy on the outside. Stamens generally 15, in some species more. Anther-cells generally equal; connective prolonged into a pointed appendage, generally longer than the anther, sometimes short or wanting. Segments of fruiting calyx with their broad bases tightly enclosing the fruit, the three outer ones generally longer than the others and much longer than the fruit. Ripe seed generally without albumen. Cotyledons thick, fleshy, generally both bifid to their base, that is to the point where they are attached to the apex of the hypocotyl (radicle) or to the petioles. Pith with 3 to 30 perimedullary resin-canals, with now small now wide lumen. The structure of the petiole is various; usually it shows the characteristic form; viz., a semicircle of 7 to 9 isolated vascular bundles with alternating resin-canals and a central bundle-system without resin-canals; in other species there is found a central bundle system with no or 1 to 3 resin-canals. The largest genus in the family; with more than 90 species, with 14 species in the Philippines. Of our Philippine species four, S. balangeran, S. eximia, S. squamata, and S. teysmanniana are extra-Philippine in distribution.
