The central part of the Pacific Occam eastward from 150 E. longitude and south from 40 to about 26 N. latitude is famous as an albacore ground. In this area most of the catch is made in the northern portion around October, but the center of the fishing grounds gradually moves southward until in the latter part of March it is at around 26 to 28 N. The fishing season in this region ends from around the end of March to the early part of April. The various fishing grounds centered respectively at 160 E. longitude, 175 E. longitude, and 175 W. longitude all differ more or less in their characteristics, but data are scarce and a thorough analysis is impossible. Besides albacore, bigeye tuna are taken rather plentifully, particularly around December. Striped marlin and broadbill are also taken in some numbers, and throughout the sections scattered catches of black tuna and yellowfin are made.
In the coastal waters of the Ogasawara chain some fish are caught throughout the year. Chief among the tunas taken are the yellowfin and the bigeye tuna. The black tuna is also taken, although very rarely, in the northern part of this sea region around May and June. The albacore catch increases somewhat from March to May. Skipjack boats which operate in this area take albacore on pole and line at about that season. The season of greatest abundance for yellowfin is from May to July and there is another increase in the catch around November. A tendency for the rise and decline in the bigeye catch to be about 1 to 2 months later than that for the yellowfin can be discerned. The most important fish in this region are the spearfishes. Among them the striped marlin catch in general rises and declines at about the same times as the yellowfin, but the increase in the yellowfin catch in Noven-iber is not paralleled by a similar increase in the striped marlin catch. The rise and fall of the black tuna catch roughly parallels that of the bigeye. Broadbill are rather abundant in the northeastern portion of this sea area, the season being centered around February. In addition there is also a very large shark catch which is chiefly great blue shark.
In the Okinawa region, too, fishing proceeds throughout the year. In this region schools of black tuna appear everywhere from April to June. These schools are thought to differ in age from the previously mentioned schools of the Satsunan Sea area. Yellowfin are rather abundant along the eastern boundary of the Kuroshio and spearfishes are plentiful from the western boundary of the current to the 100-fathom line of the East China Sea. The spearfish catch begins to increase gradually around March and the fishing grounds gradually move northward. At the beginning of the season white marlin are most numerous, followed by striped marlin, after which comes the season for black marlin and sailfish. On the whole the seasonal changes in the catch of these fishes closely resemble the pattern seen in coastal waters of the Ogasawara Islands.
Spearfishes are extremely abundant east of Formosa where the harpoon fishery is very active from-i October to April, that is, during the season of northeasterly winds. The fishing grounds are within 30 miles of the coast. At the same season in the same aureas there is a flourishing longline fishery for sharks, mainly species of Carcharhinus and hammerheads. From April to June the black tuna migrate into these waters and at the same season sailfish are abundant.
In the South China Sea the most numerous species is the yellowfin, its fishing season being the season of northeasterly winds. From March to the early part of June albacore fishing is active front the Bashi Strait to the northeastern pair of this sea area. Black marlin and sailfish become abundant from June to August. Albacore are rather plentiful around March in the northeastern part of the sea area.
Black marlin and yellowfin tuna are densely distributed in the waters 60 to 200 miles east of the Philippines during the season of southwesterly winds, the former being more abundant in the north while the latter is more numerous in the southern part of the area. Fishing for black tuna is very active from March to June in waters comparatively close to the coast of northeastern Luzon.
30

