120 G-. King — Materials for a Flora of the Malayan Peninsula. [No. 2, narrowed to the base, 7-nerved, 2.75 in. long, and .45 in. broad; the two inner of the same shape, but few-nerved, only 1.5 in. long, and .25 in. broad. Penang: Curtis, No. 199. A species known only by Mr. Curtis. solitary specimen. The connectives of the inner anthers are ciliate, somewhat in the fashion of S. ciliata, King; but the leaves of that species are very different. IS. Shorea stellata, Dyer in Hook. fil. Fl. Br. Ind. I, 304. A tree 100 to 150 feet high; young branches slender, at first stellate-puberulous, but speedily glabrous, with bark dark-coloured and sparse-ly lenticellate. Leaves thinly coriaceous, ovate-lanceolate, the base rounded: upper surfaces glabrous, the lower very minutely lepidote on the reticulations; main nerves 8 to 11 pairs, rather straight, oblique, prominent on the lower surface; length 4 to 5.5 in., breadth 1.75 to 2.25 in., petiole .7 to .9 in. Panicles axillary or terminal, crowded at the extremities of the branches, many-flowered, 4 to 6 in. long; minute-ly stellate-pubescent. Flowers .25 in. in diam. Calyx minutely greyish-tomentose. the segments ovate-oblong, sub-acute, valvate, erect. Petals broadly ovate, obtuse, pubescent outside, spreading. Stamens 15, the filaments short, broad; the anthers linear-elongate, shortly bi-mucronate, the connective also shortly mucronate. Ovary ovate-globular, grooved, very tomentose; the style short; the stigma ovoid, small. Ripe fruit ovoid, apiculate, tomentose, .5 in. long; sepals all enlarged, sub-equal, membranous, linear-oblong, sub-acute, much narrowed at the base, quite free from the fruit, 5-ribbed, reticulate, 4.5 in. long, and about .6 in. broad. Parashorea stellata, Kurz, Journ. As. Soc, Bengal, for 1870, pt. 2, p. 66. For. Flora Burm., I, 117; Pierre Flore Forest. Coch-Chine, t. 224. Perak: King's Collector, No. 7505. Distrib. Burmah. None of the Perak specimens are in fruit; but in leaves and flowers they agree absolutely with Kurz.s Bmmiese specimens. The calyx in all is quite valvate, and it was on this character chiefly that Kurz based the genus Parashorea. 19. Shorea Maranti, Burck in Ann. Jard. Bot. Buitenzorg, VI. 217. A small tree: young branches dark-coloured, stellate-puberulous. Leaves thinly coriaceous, more or less broadly elliptic or elliptic-oblong, shortly abruptly and bluntly acuminate; the base broad, rounded, or almost truncate; upper surface glabrous, the midrib and nerves minu-tely tomentose or pubescent when young; lower surface more or less sparsely minutely stellate-puberulous, the sides of the midrib, especi-ally at the axils of the main nerves, glandular and densely covered with masses of brown pale-edged scales: main nerves 12 to 16 pairs, oblique, 
