Department of Zoology 391
Copan; six crocodile skulls, including one very large one, collected in the Philippine Islands, from Mr. A. W. Exline, of San Jos, Mindoro; eight specimens from Dr. W. P. Kennedy, of Baghdad, Iraq; three Bahaman fresh-water turtles of recently described species, from the University of Miami, Miami, Florida; and two fine pink rattlesnakes (the rare species Crotalus lepidus lepidus), from Dr. and Mrs. Paul Rudnick, of the Mcdonald Observatory, Fort Davis, Texas. As in previous years, the Chicago Zoological Society, the Lincoln Park Zoo, and the General Biological Supply House, of Chicago, have turned over important material to the Museum.
A large and important gift was that of 8,424 preserved fishes from the Zoology Department of the University of Chicago. These were collected by students and members of the faculty over a period of years and are of much value in studies of the local fauna of Illinois and neighboring states. Added to these were 248 specimens collected in Indiana and presented by Dr. Hurst Shoemaker of Stanford University, California. For exhibition, a number of game fishes were donated. Mr. Leon Mandel, of Chicago, gave a large "Mako" shark which he secured off the north coast of Cuba. Colonel Warren R. Roberts, of Chicago, contributed a white marlin, and Mr. Al Pflueger, of Miami, Florida, gave a specimen of Allison's tuna, a long-finned variety of the yellow-finned tuna. Mr. Michael Lerner, well-known sportsman of New York, presented an excellent mounted specimen of North Atlantic broadbill swordfish caught on rod and reel by Mrs. Lerner off Cape Breton, Nova Scotia — the first swordfish ever thus taken by a woman angler in Canadian waters. The John G. Shedd Aquarium, Chicago, continued its courtesy of past years by contributing a number of fish specimens.
Excepting six specimens received in exchange, all the somewhat limited accessions of insects were obtained through various donors. The most noteworthy acquisition was a lot of 543 named beetles, mainly from the Austrian Tyrol. These were received as a gift from Dr. Wolfgang Amschler, of Zeiyarn bei Cronach, Bavaria, Germany. Mr. Gordon Grant, of Los Angeles, California, continued to show his interest in the Museum by donating 161 insects that he collected in his vicinity. Through the kindness of Dr. Orlando Park, Evanston, Illinois, forty-five species of named New Zealand moths were added to the collection.
Of the 1,698 specimens of lower invertebrates accessioned, some 1,200 were shells presented by Mr. Clark W. Walter, of Chicago.

