188 The Philippine Journal of Science wis 2. SHOREA CILIATA King. This species has previously been reported only from Penang. It is represented by For. Bur. 22788 Tabat, collected in flower April 20, 1914, at Pinagcamaligan, Tayabas Province, Luzon, growing in lowland forest. It is known by the local name yacal. It matches very closely the description of the species in the flowers and leaves. The fruit has not yet been collected in the Philippines. It is represented also by Bur. Sci. 18575 McGregor, in flower, collected on Biliran Island, May 24, 1914. This is a large tree with smooth brownish bark and yellowish inner bark, which is very resinous. The leaves are coriaceous, glabrous above, lighter colored, sometimes almost glaucous, and slightly pubescent beneath, elliptic-lanceolate, acuminate at apex, cuneate at base, 6.5 to 9 cm long, 2.4 to 3.4 cm wide; petiole brownish, sometimes pubescent, 12 to 15 mm long; secondary veins 8 or 9 pairs, tertiary veins parallel and reticulate. Flowers yellowish, with sweet odor. 3. SHOREA ASTYLOSA sp. nov. Arbor excelsa. Folia ovata, acuminata, basi rotundata, glabra; nervis secundariis utrinque 8 ad 12. S. balangeran similis sed foliis brevioribus et staminibus ciliatis. A very large tree, 25 to 30 m tall and 1 m or more in diameter. Wood very hard, dark brownish-yellow, resinous. Leaves ovate, entire, margins slightly inrolled, rounded at base, acuminate at. apex, glabrous on upper surface and only slightly puberulent beneath, lighter-colored beneath, coriaceous, shining, 6.5 to 9 cm long, 3.5 to 4.5 cm wide ; petioles dark-colored, slender, 1 to 2 cm long. Twigs very dark, almost black. Secondary veins 8 to 12 pairs, tertiary veins fine, parallel and reticulate, almost as distinct above as below. Flowers pale to rusty yellow with a sweet odor. Inflorescence axillary, paniculate, less than 5 cm long. Branches of inflorescence, calyx and outside of corolla grayish pubescent. Sepals broadly ovate, grayish pubescent on the outside, smoother within, concave, imbricate, 1.5 mm long and wide. Petals oblonglanceolate, rusty yellow, 8 mm long, 2 mm wide, rounded at apex, more or less twisted, convolute in bud, concave, grayish pubescent on the outside and faintly puberulous within. Stamens 20 to 30, less than 1 mm long, filaments short, anther cells elliptic-oblong, about 0.2 mm long, appendix to connective ciliate about 0.3 mm long. Ovary pyramidal or conical, grayish pubescent, 1.5 mm tall and about 1 mm in diameter at the base, bluntly rounded at the apex. Style practically absent or very short. Fruit unknown. Mindanao, Zamboanga Province, For. Bur. 13271 Foxworthy, De Mesa, & Villamil, May 8, 1912, collected on a bluff overlooking a swamp at the edge of Dumanquilas Bay (type) . Local name, yacal. This species differs from Shorea balangeran by the shorter and relatively broader leaves, with a smaller number of secondary veins; the smaller size
