CETTSTACEA. 219
without definite locality, from the collection of the late Dr. Bleeker, and already referred to in my report on that collection,
53. Pilumnus vespertilio (Fabr).
Five specimens were collected on the beach at Port Molle (Ios. 95, 103) (first collection). Prom the second collection are retained a female from Thursday-island beach (No. 167), a male from a coral-reef at Clairmont (No. 151), a female from West Island, Prince of Wales Channel (No. 149), and a small female from Dundas Straits, N.W. Australia, Item. (No. 161). In nearly all the hairs with which the carapace is clothed are of a cinereous colour. Hess mentions its occurrence at Sydney. It is said by Mr. Hasweu to be common in Australia on coral-reefs.
A very large series of specimens of this widely distributed species is in the Museum collection, from the following localities  — Mauritius (Old Collection) ; Seychelles (Dr. E. P. Writjlit) ; Java coll. Dr. Bleeker) ; Timor Laut H. 0. Forbes) ; N.W. coast of Australia, Nicol Bay Mr. du Boidae) ; Madjica-sima group H.M.  isamarang' types of P. ursulus) ; Philippine Islands, Siquijor (Cumin f); Cumberland Island, Sir C. Hardy's Island (J. B. Jukes); New Zealand (Dr. A. Sinclair, R.N) ; Piji Islands, Vanua Levu, Bau (H.M.S.  Herald ') ; Samoa Islands, Upolu, c. (Rev. S. J. Whitmee) ; New Hebrides (J. Macgillivray) ; besides others without definite or well-authenticated localities.
I have in my report on the late Dr. Bleeker's collection of Malaysian Crustacea given the principal references to the synonymy of this species.
54. Pilumnus pulcher. (Plate XXII. fig. A)
In this species the carapace is regularly convex and somewhat orbiculate, the antero-lateral margins being as long as the posterolateral and regularly arcuate ; the upper surface of the body and legs is rather thinly clothed with very long fulvous hairs, beneath which the carapace is granulated ; the median frontal lobes are very prominent, deflexed, and divided by a very narrow (or closed) median fissure ; the orbital margins are denticulated ; between each of the four principal spines of the antero-lateral margins are three or four scarcely smaller spinules. The pterygostomian regions are smooth ; the sternum coarsely punctured. All the segments of the postabdomen distinct in both sexes. The basal antennal joints are robust and reach to the subfrontal processes ; the merus-joints of the outer maxillipedes small and smooth. The chelipedes are moderately robust, and in the specimens examined nearly of equal size ; arm short, trigonous, smooth, with a strong spine near the distal end of its upper margin ; wrist granulated externally, with only a small spinule near the distal end of its inner margin ; palm with three spines on its upper margin (see fig. a), its outer surface strongly tuberculated, the tubercles arranged in longitudinal series,

