84 C. R. Osten Sacken: Diptera
it my duty to describe as new, every specimen that I could not determine.
A peculiar difficulty, attending the study of the diptera in the large groups of islands of South Eastern Asia, consists in the local varieties, which seem to exist on different islands.
In several instances I have been in doubt, whether to regard them as distinct species, or as mere varieties; (for instance Rosapha habilis Wk. and R. bicolor Bigot; the specimens of Chrysopila ferruginosa Wied. with brown incisures on the abdomen, and those without them etc).
Such questions will be easier to solve in a special monograph, based upon more abundant materials.
Incidentally, I have inserted general observations on genera, groups and families, which I thought might be useful to the future worker in the same direction.
The synoptic tables which I give, will save him some labor, but must be used with caution, as they have of necessity been prepared either from notes, taken in different collections, or merely from descriptions.
It would be premature to found, upon such small materials, a final opinion on the relation of the dipterous fauna of the Philippine Islands to that of the Malay Archipelago.
Thus much is evident, that the relationship is considerable.
Both faunas agree in the large representation of certain groups of diptera (for instance the genera Laphria, Promachus, Ommatius, Milesia, the family Ortalidae), as well as in the scanty representation of other groups (the Dasypogonina  with the exception of a few genera, like Leptogaster and Damalis; the whole family Bombylidae).
Species widespread over South-eastern Asia, occur here also (Chrysops dispar, Chrysopila ferruginea, Psilopus vittatus, Syrphus aegrotus, Eristalis errans, Ochromyia ferruginea, several Luciliae, Scholastes cinctus, Nerius fuscus etc).
Several forms of an apparently more restricted area are common to the Islands and to Amboina (the genera Scamboneura and Damaging)  to Celebes (the genera Rosapha, Telostylus; the species Sphyracephala cothurnata, Diopsis subnotata, Tabanus v. d. Wulpi etc).
The claim of a fauna to individuality, the degree of its specialization, are more difficult to define, upon such meagre data, than its relationship to another fauna.
In the present case, the relationship shows itself principally in a similar distribution of groups ; whether the specialization, when better investigated, will assert itself in a large proportion of peculiar species, remains to be seen.
In the vertebrata, the specialization of the fauna of the Philippines is very remarkable.
According to Mr. A. R. Wallace (Island Life, p. 361) about nine-tenths of the mammalia and two-thirds of the land -birds are peculiar species.
Such data led Mr. Wallace to believe
