The Birds of Sibuyan Island, Romblon Province, Philippines, with Particular Reference to Elevational Distribution and Biogeographic Affinities
Steven M. Goodman David E. Willard Pedro C. Gonzales
Abstract
Sibuyan Island is a relatively small, isolated island measuring at its widest points 24 km north to south and 28 km east to west, rising to 2050 m above sea level, with a total land area of 233 km.
The nearest major island masses are Luzon (to the northeast), Mindoro (to the northwest), and Panay (to the south).
A considerable portion of the natural habitat, including some lowland forest, remains intact.
Sibuyan is oceanic in origin and during the middle to late Pleistocene was not attached to any other island mass.
Most of the small islands in the Philippines for which we have ornithological information were connected to larger island groups during the Pleistocene, making an analysis of the avifauna of Sibuyan, and its faunistic relationships to other surrounding larger islands, important in understanding patterns of dispersal across water barriers, and providing an interesting contrast to the avifaunas on Pleistocene land-bridge islands.
A total of 1 30 bird species have been recorded on Sibuyan: 102 known or presumed residents and 29 migrants or boreal winter visitors.
Historical records combined with the results of our 1989 and 1992 field trips show 93 resident species occurring between and 100 m, 24 at 325  50 m, 19 at 725  50 m, and 10 at 1325  50 m.
Although little has been published previously on the birds of Sibuyan, the number of collections from the island is remarkable, spanning almost 100 years of ornithological exploration.
Several collectors described the habitats they found on the island during their visits.
This information provides a window into the extinction and colonization rates of birds as a function of time and habitat degradation.
The cutting of the lowland forests for lumber or conversion into agricultural areas has had a major impact on the avifauna.
Three or four species of large pigeons have likely been extirpated on Sibuyan.
Five species of open country birds have colonized the island in the past few decades.
The resident bird species found on Sibuyan are closest to those on the islands of Mindanao, Luzon, Mindoro, and Panay.
This group of islands has an avifauna that is very distinct from Palawan Island's.
Sibuyan is one of the last small islets in the Philippines with significant large tracts of forest.
Its relative remoteness and lack of extreme human pressure on the remaining natural resources, combined with a biologically diverse environment, make it an ideal area for a reserve.
The Department of Environment and Natural Resources, Manila, is currently considering a plan to place a portion of the island in the national protected area system.
Introduction tially or totally cleared of their lowland forests.
Fewer than 10% of these islands have had avifauthe Philippines comprise over 7,000 islands and nal surveys, and the percentage of well-surveyed
islets, the vast majority of which have been par-islands is even smaller.
To date, virtually all of the
FIELDIANA: ZOOLOGY, N.S, NO.
82, NOVEMBER 30, 1995, PP. 1-57 1
