32 THE FLOEA OF SINGAPORE. is not rare however to find certain plants of Pigeon orchid which do not flower on the regular day, but have a distinct day which they appear to keep to with equal regularity. A curious fact is that another species of Dendrobium (D. criniferum) invariably flowers in Singapore on the day preceding that of D. criniferum, whenever that happens to be. It might be thought that the weather in the district in which the plant was growing was the influencing agent, but this appears to have but little effect on the orchids. On one occasion (Dec. 5, 1893) the pigeon orchids developed their flowers so far that they were obviously ready to open them on that day, but an extraordinarily heavy rain retarded them, and the flowers opened the next day, but except in cases like this the weather previous to the flowering does not seem to make any difference to the date of flowering. Some few plants have a regular annual flowering season, such are Calanthe curculugoides in September, and Grammatophyllum, July and August. A certain number of trees flower only every fifth year, notably the Dipterocarpeae, Every fifth year there appears to be an average higher temperature, and a period of greater dryness in May or June than in other years, and then and only then is it possible to obtain flowers of these trees. Such trees are most of the Dipterocarpeae, Xanthophyllum Kunstleri, Careya sp. In this case also all the plants in a given district flower simultaneously. It can easily be understood that it is very important to a plant that all should flower on the same day in order that tbey may be cross-fertilized by the insects that visit them, and this is especially the case in plants in which the flowers last but a single day, as in the case of the Pigeon orchid, but it is difficult to see how this is brought about. A good many trees seem to flower even less often than this and there are not a few which though apparently full grown healthy trees have not given flowers once in ten years. Colors oj flowers. As is well known the colors of flowers depend to a large extent on the kind of insect fertilizer for which they are destined to prove attractive. The most abundant insects in the thick jungle are the flies (Diptera) and these appear often in enormous abundance when certain trees are in bloom. The Oaks and 
