1893.] G. King — Materials for a Flora of the Malayan Peninsula. 115 the three outer 7-nerved, 1.5 in. long and .4 in. broad; the two inner similar in shape, but fewer-nerved and only .5 in. long. Perak: King.s Collector, Nos. 3601 and 3744. The only flowers of this species which I have seen are in an early stage of bud, and from them I am unable to make out the characters of the petals properly. The stamens appear to be only 10 in number: but of this I cannot now be quite certain. 9. Shorea gratissima, Dyer in Hook. fil. Fl. Br. Inch I, 307. A tree: younger branches slender, glabrescent, dark-coloured. Leaves coriaceous, elliptic, acuminate, the base broad and rounded, the margins sub-undulate, both surfaces glabrous: main nerves 12 to 14 pairs, faint; length 2.5 to 4 in., breadth T25 to J .5 in., petiole .6 to .75 in. Panicles axillary and terminal, lax, few-flowered, 3 to 6 in. long, sub-puberu-lous. Flowers secund, pedicelled, -25 in. long. Sepals lanceolate, sub-acute; minutely tomentose outside, glabrous inside in the lower, adpressed-pubescent in the upper, half. Petals twice as long as the calyx and much broader, elliptic, obtuse, glabrescent. Stamens about 20; the filaments short, unequal, dilated. Anthers elongated-ovate, truncate, each with a terminal awn from the connective twice as long as itself. Ovary ovoid, sub-glabrous; stigma small. Ripe fruit unknown. Hopea gratissima, Wall. Cat. 960. Singapore: Wallich. This is known only by Wallich's specimens. He referred it to Hopea, of which genus it certainly has the fades: the aastivation of the sepals is moreover that of Hopea, and so is the apiculus of the con-nective of the stamens. The petals in shape, however, resemble those of Shorea. I retain it in Shorea in deference to the opinion of Mr. Dyer. 10. Shorea Ridleyana, King, n. sp. A tree 60 or 80 feet high: young branches slender, dark brown, lenticellate, nearly glabrous. Leaves ovate-lanceolate, shortly acuminate, the base rounded: both surfaces glabrous, the upper shining: main nerves 9 or 10 pairs, curved, spreading, thin but slightly prominent beneath: length 2.5 to 4 in., breadth 1.1 to 2 in.; petiole .4 to .5 in., rugulose. Panicles axillary and terminal, 1.5 to 2 in. long, densely stellate-puberulous. Flowers .2 in. long, pedicellate. Sepals sub-equal, oblong, obtuse, tomentose outside, glabrous inside. Petals oblong, slightly oblique, obtuse, glab-rous inside, puberulous outside on one half, glabrous on the other. Stamens 15, sub-equal, the filaments dilated in the lower half: anthers shorter than the filaments, ovate, the connective produced into an awn longer than the anther. Ovary ovoid-conical, minutely tomentose. Style short; stigma minute. Fruit (immature) ovoid, apiculate, minutely 
