30 COMIFFIECIAL FISHERIES REVIEW Vol. I3, No. 12
Republic of the Philippines
IMPORT CONTROL LAW ALFFINDMENT AFFECTS FISHERY PRODUCTS IMPORTS  An amendment to the Philippine Import Control Law (Republic Act 650) was issued by the President of the Philippines on August 24, I95I (Executive Order No. 471 • Imports of certain fishery and related products are affected by this action. The amenftnent revised Appendix "A" of Republic Act 65O, the Import Control Law which became effective July 1, I95I; banned the importation of certain commodities; and provided the procedure for importing goods under EGA authorizations.
A new Annex "A" listed items completely decontrolled, together with essential items of import. Fishery products listed as completely decontrolled were canned salmon and sardines. Listed as essential items of import under this same list were canned mackerel, herring, and squid; cod liver oil; hydrogenated animal products and fish oils; fish meal; and fishery gear: specifically fish hooks and fishing rods and tackles-Annex "B" indicates items the importation of vftiich was immediately banned. Included among the items listed are all fresh fish, canned anchovies, mother-of-pearl, canned moss and seaweeds, and dried moss and seaweeds.
Annex "C" listed items which will be banned beginning July 1, 1952, but there were no items listed under this category of interest to the fishing and allied industries.
The amendment also establishes that goods to be imported under ECA procurement authorizations shall not be licensed by the Import Control Commission.
United Kingdom
FISH-HANDLING METHODS ABOARD VESSELS BEING TESTED  Survey and experimental work by the Torry Research Station at sea under commercial conditions is now in progress to test the effectiveness of the present practice in cooling fish as quickly as possible and maintaining them at 32° F-from catching to landing. A small observation cabin has been fitted on a commercial trawler, according to an article which appeared in the November I95I issue of The Food Trade Review  This article summarizes the work carried out by the Research Station on fish under the Government's Food Investigation Organization.
"A study of the influence of exposure of the fish on deck showed that unguttea Lin, if left on tae deck. in warm weather, could reach temperatures which accelerate action by enzymes and bacteria so much that the fish deteriorated badly before landing even though chilling and storage in ice had been efficient.
"An analysis of the figures for fish condemned at one of the Dinner ports during the year suggests that handling and stowage on many of the distant-water fishing vessels could be improved a good deal even with present equipment" according to a November 9 American Embassy dispatch which quoted parts of the article.
or

