118 Dipterocarpaceae. [Shorea. much narrowed and almost stalk-like at base, the 5 nerves parallel and tranversely net-veined. Hab.—Frequent in the tropical forests of Martaban; rather rare along the eastern sloper of the Pegu Yomah, up to 1500 ft. elevation.—Fl. March; Fr. Apr.-May.—s:l.—SS.=Metam. SiS. Remarks.—Sapwood light brown. Shorea, Roxb. Calyx-tube very short. Stamens 35-100, the cells unequal and often a little pilose at the tips, the connective terminating in a bristle of penicellate sharp point. Ovary free, 3-celled. Fruiting calyx not enlarged, the wing-like 5 lobes erect, very imbricate, and with their broad twisted bases closely embracing the nut, the 3 outer ones shorter.—Trees, with entire leaves. Flowers usually rather small, racemose in panicles. * Inflorescence tomentose or velvety-pubescent. X Leaves chartaceous, when full-grown glabrous or nearly so. Shorter calyx-lobes in fruit acuminate; stamens c. 20-25 . . S. obtusa. Shorter calyx-lobes in fruit blunt; stamens about 50 . . . S. robusta. XX Leaves very ciriaceous, appressed silvery beneath. Incompletely known; leaves apparently not deciduous . . . S. Helferi. ** Inflorescence quite glabrous . . . . . . S. floribunda. 1. S. obtusa, Wall.; H.f. Ind. Fl. i. 306.—Thit-ya—A tree (70–80+40—50+6–7), shedding leaves in HS., the young shoots covered by a fugaceous, greyish or whitish stellate tomentum; bark irregularly cracked and fissured, blackish-grey, rough and brittle; leaves elliptical to elliptically oblong, 4-6 (on very old trees 2-4) in. long, rounded at the base, on a 2/3 in. long, glabrous petiole, blunt or occasionally bluntish apiculate, thick chartaceous, entire, while young and herbaceous (especially beneath) sprinkled with tufts of stellate short hairs, usually soon glabrous, tufty-hairy in the nerve-axils beneath; flowers yellowish, rather small, almost sessile, in short recemes, forming whitish almost scurfy-tomentose panicles in the axils of the new or fallen leaves; calyx about a line long, white-tomentose; petals velvety outside, linear to linear-lanceolate, acuminate, 3-4 lin. long; lobes of fruiting calyx enclosing a pubescent nut of the size of a cherry-stone, oblong-lanceolate, slightly puberulous, greyish-velvety towards the dilated broad bases, the 3 outer longer ones about 2 in. long, some-what acute or bluntish, the 2 inner ones about 1/2 to 1/4 shorter, linear-lanceolate, acuminate. Hab.—Common in the Eng and hill Eng-forests all over Burma from Ava, Prome, and Martaban down to Tenasserim, up to 2000 ft. elevation.—Fl. March; Fr. Apr.-May.—l.—SS.=petrophilous imperm., Lat. 
