16 POLYPODIACE.E OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
(1) D. lunulata Desv. Rhizome erect, rising above the ground or not; stipes clustered, fronds 1 to 2 m. high, commonly bipinnate; pinnules almost dimidiate, trapezoidal, the lower margin almost straight, the upper slightly rounded, entire, glabrous, herbaceous; sori 4 to G to a pinnule, large, partly immersed.
Luzon, Cuming 142, Steere; Mount Apo, Devore and Hoover 345, common at about 4,500 feet.
Pantropic.
(3) POLYSTICHUM Roth.
Fronds at least pinnate, usually tough or rigid, with toothed and spinulose margins and the basiscopic half the less developed; veins free, or in one species anastomosing sparsely and irregularly; sori round, usually dorsal; indusium normally peltate, exceptionally reniform. A reasonably natural genus, but difficult to define because of the many directions in which single species or groups vary; related to both Nephrodium and Aspidium. Mostly terrestrial.
1. Pinnae articulate to rachis (Cyclopeltis) (1) P. presumium
1. Pinnae not articulate, veins free Eupolystichum)
2. Simply pinnate (2) P. auriculatum
2. Lower pinnae pinnate, sori costal or medial.
3. Teeth aristate (3) P. aculeatum
3. Teeth blunt or mucronate (4) P. obtusus
2. Lower pinnse pinnate, sori submarginal (5) P. amabile
2. Lower pinnae at least bipinnate. 3. Teeth mucronate or awned.
4. Lower pinnae lanceolate-deltoid.
5. Rhizome creeping (6) P. aristatum
5. Rhizome erect (7) P. coniifolium
4. Pinnae linear (8) P. horizontale
3. Teeth awnless (9) P. varium
1. Pinnae not articulate, veins inclined to anastomose toward
the margin (10) P. falcatum
(1) P. preslianum (J. Sm) Moore. Rhizome creeping or oblique, short, densely fibrillose; stipes clustered, 3 to 10 cm. high, naked or nearly so; frond 20 to 40 cm. high, 8 to 10 cm. broad, simply pinnate; pinnae jointed to the rhizome, broadly lanceolate, obscurely crenate, almost horizontal, acute, cordate on the lower and truncate on the upper side at the base, coriaceous, glabrous; veins forked about three times, the lower branches falling short of the margin; sori in 1 to 3 rows on each side of the costa, the costal row the most constantly complete.
Masbate and Catanduanes, Baranda ; Tayabas, Merrill 3351.
Malaya.
A species very near this, but with thinner foliage and the pinnae not articulate to the rachis, occurs in Luzon and Mindanao, and probably throughout the Archipelago; the two are decidedly too alike for me to separate them generically, by recognizing J. Smith's Cyclopeltis.
(2) P. auriculatum (Sw) Presl, var nervosum (Fee) Christ. Stipes fasciculate, decumbent, 10 to 15 cm. long, scaly below or throughout; frond about 30 cm. long, 5 cm. broad; pinnae numerous, subsessile, crenate,

