NOTES ON PHILIPPINE SHARKS, I
By Albert W. C. T. Herre
Chief, Division of Fisheries, Bureau of Science.
Mamta
Throughout the ages sharks have been of well-nigh universal interest.
Without the gorgeous colors or flowerlike brilliancy of some fishes or the superb symmetry and grace of others, they yet irresistibly attract attention.
Though as a rule of a dull uniform gray or bluish cast and without beauty of form, by their size, speed, greediness, and ferocity they have aroused curiosity from earliest times.
Though a few sharks are notable for singularity of shape, it is their more degenerate and less-active kindred, the skates and rays, that have developed the strangest forms and the most uncanny powers.
Although some sharks attain a length of only a few inches, even when fully matured, as a whole they are of large size, and certain sharks and rays are the largest of all fishes.
Many species of sharks are very ferocious when hungry and do not hesitate to attack any other animal in the water, regardless of its size.
Sharks are no worse in this regard than many other fishes, as any very large carnivorous fish may be dangerous to man.
Barracuda and the giant sea basses of the East Indies and Polynesia are more dreaded in some localities than are sharks.
No shark is more ferocious or dangerous to man than are the small and apparently insignificant caribe fish of the South American rainy tropics.
The sharks and their allies represent an entirely distinct and divergent line from that of the bony fishes.
They have no air bladder, no true scales, and no membrane bones, the operculum being always absent in the living species, while the skeleton not only presents a number of peculiarities but also is much less specialized both in form and in material, always remaining more or less cartilaginous.
The shoulder girdle is not fastened to the skull but to one of the vertebrae some distance behind it, so that there is a neck similar to that in higher animals.
The males of all living species have attached to the ventral fins a pair of claspers or copulatory organs.
These serve as a penis
67
