INTRODUCTION H
I
The first part  consists of a reprint of Llanos's papers, with his Spanish diagnoses reproduced and also translated into Latin, It is convenient to have these descriptions reprinted, as Llanos's chief publication, his "Fragmentos" is a rare book. The introduction consists chiefly of biographical notes relating to Llanos's life and botanical work ; see p. 25.
The second paper, a botanical curiosity, is that of Mercado  originally written in the last third of the seventeenth century. It deals with the medicinal properties of various Philippine plants and the discussions of various species include a curious mixture of fact, superstition, and fable in many cases The scientific names added by Fernandez-villar are not always correct. From a botanical standpoint the work is of very slight importance, but it contains some data of economic value and is of interest from a historical standpoint. The introduction contains biographical notes regarding Mercado, an interesting discussion of the early botanical writings of various representatives of the religious orders in the Philippines, and a history of Mercado's manuscript. The original illustrations, in color, were not reproduced when the paper was published.
The 473 plates, illustrating the third edition of the Flora de Filipinas, are usually in two unbound volumes, but in some copies they are scattered through the four volumes of text. They are unnumbered in the edition de luxe, and their proper numbers can be determined only by reference to the text of the Novissima Appendix or to the list of illustrations usually found at the end of the Novissima Appendix or sometimes placed in the first volume of plates. This list consists of six pages numbered by the Roman system.
The identification of the plates is the work of Naves, but there are numerous manifest errors, both in relation to Blanco's species they are supposed to represent and to binomials of other
Fragmentos de Algunas Plantas de Filipinas no incluidas en la flora de las islas de la primera ni segunda edicion dispuestas segun el sistema Linnean por el P. Fr. Antonio Llanos, Agustino Calzado, anadidos con otros trabajos del autor y vertidos al Latin por el P. Fr. Celestino Fernandez-villar del mismo instituto (1880) XVI  1-108.
Libro de medicinas de esta tierra y declaraciones de las virtudes de los arboles y plantas que estan en estas islas Filipinas compuesto por el P, Predicador Fr. Ignacio de Mercado filipinense del orden de San Agustin hijo del convento de San Pablo de Manila. Corregido e ilustrado con las clasificaciones cientificas por el P. Fr. Celestino Fernandez-villar del mismo instituto (1880) VI  1-63.
•
Cook, A. C. Some Filipino Botany. Plant World 4 (1901) 1-5.

