274 NOTES ON DIPTEROCARPS. them; and his opinion always deserves consideration: but beyond that he went wrong in not seeing that the peninsular material was different from the really unlike Vatica Wallichii. In considering whether King was right to keep apart that Malayan material from the Bornean type, and right also to distinguish specifically P. Stapfianus, we have met with much difficulty. We have ended in keeping the peninsular and the Bornean material apart, more from caution than from conviction, and find the Pachynocarpus-portion of King's P. Wallichii not separable specifically from his P. Stapfianus. If however, there is a confusion in Motley's specimens, and it can be of a Vatica in flower mixed with a Pachynocarpus in fruit (flowers and fruit were probably gathered months apart), then the flowering specimen is likely to be a flowering Vatica and perhaps V. Wallichii, while the fruiting specimen (which is P. umbonatus) may not differ from P. Stapfianus. More study in Borneo is needed to decide this both near Labuan, and because Motley's last years were at Banjermassin in the south east. At flowering time there is no sure mark in a herbarium specimen by which Pachynocarpus can be distinguished from Vatica Wallichii. That led to King's mistake . of identifying the two; and a fair measure of variability in the calyx caused him to think that the adhesion which is not visible in the flower, came quite late in fruit-development, whereas it commences from the fall of the petals. The diagrams printed above indicate some of the variation in the calyx. We have had good opportunities of studying Vatica Wallichii alive, because it is a tree cultivated in the Economic Garden, Singapore, and because also it is by no means uncommon round the coasts of the Malay Peninsula. It has been planted on dry ground in the Economic Garden and has grown well; but its natural habitat is upon ground liable to flooding. Herbarium specimens prove its occurrence down the west coast of the Peninsula, certainly from Province Wellesley, and possibly from Trang in Lower Siam, to Singapore ; and down the east coast from Kuantan to Singapore. It, by being identified with Burck's Vatica ruminata, is known also from Bangka. It is possible that Dr. Haviland's flowering specimens, Nos. 1907 and 1908, from near Kuching, Sarawak, may be it; but fruits are necessary for making this sure. To Malays it is one of the several trees called Eesak. Eesak paya (swamp resak) is a name for it in Pahang and so are Eesak pasir (pasir may mean sand, sea beach, or a certain quality in a wood which causes it to take the edge off cutting tools) and' Eesak laru,* which last belongs also to Pachynocarpus Stapfianus. Goodenough, Ridley's collector, called it Damar Mata Kuching on specimens collected in Singapore island and in Malacca. Derry in Malacca called it Kayu Merbatu Pasir. *Laru is a substance used in making sugar. In this particular case, it is said that punctures or cuts' are made in the bark; the resin which exudes is collected and placed into syrup which is being boiled, causing it to harden into sugar with a yellow colour. Jour. Straits Branch 
