88 C M. Osten Sacken: Diptera
The Diptera of the Philippine Islands.
Tipnlidae.
Dicranomyia saltans Dolesch. 2 Bijdr. 14, Tab. II, f. 3 Limnobia saltans; Java). —
Remarkable for the unusual shortness of the cells in the apical portion of the wing and the slenderness of the legs. The venation and the absence of spurs and empodia prove it to be a Dicranomyia. Doleschall calls the antennae 16 -jointed; as far as I can discern, the only antenna of my only specimen has the normal number of 14 joints. According to the same author, this species is very numerous during the season of the dry monsoon ; it is often found in dwellings, principally in the corners, in large numbers, dancing up and down in the air; they keep so close together that they seem to hold each other in dancing, and to form a regular chain.
Libnotes Semperi n. sp. . Thorax bright orange; abdomen deep black; wings uniformly brown. — Length: 11 — 12 mm.
Head reddish-brown; rostrum, palpi and antennae black. The whole thorax, including coxae, bright orange. Halteres brown, extreme base orange. Abdomen deep velvet black, except the extreme base, which is orange. Legs brown. Wings uniformly brown; bases of the 2 and 3 post. c. on the same line; first vein incurved towards the second. — A single female.
Libnotes termitina n. sp.  Q. Uniformly yellowish-orange; extreme tip of the abdomen black; wings brown. Length; 1112 mm.
Antennae black (reddish at the base in one of the specimens); rostrum brownish; palpi brown; halteres with a brown knob; stem paler; legs brown; femora more or less yellow, but brown towards the tip. In the male, the genitals are deep-black, in the female, the last abdominal segment, although the valves of the ovipositor have the usual, brownish-ferruginous color; they are very short. Wings tinged with brown (less dark than L. Semperi); this color is rather uniformly spread over the whole surface; the apex is slightly darker. First vein incurved towards the second ; bases of second and third post. c. on the same line. — A male and a female.

