Section 5: Asia
Kalimantan have no formal protection, and tliat reefs in South Java, south-west Sulawesi, Halmahera and Timor-leste are poorly represented in MPAS.
Over 70 sites have been proposed as new MPAS, but these do not necessarily reflect a systemised consideration of ecological criteria (biodiversity, representativeness, ecosystem status, resilience, importance for fisheries) or the 1984 plan. The National Committee for Marine Conservation, recently established under the Directorate General of Marine, Coasts and Small Islands (Ministry of Fisheries and Marine Affairs) and including representatives of the Directorate General Forest Protection and Nature Conservation (Ministry of Forestry), the Ministry of Environment, and a range of NGOS, is responsible for reviewing the existing MPA network and identifying gaps in the system (Pet-soede, 2006).
The large size of Indonesia means that it is essential to consider a national MPA system in terms of several linked sub-systems, and this is being initiated at 'ecoregion' and 'seascape' level. Three areas in the Eastern Indonesia seas  Birds Head Seascape, Sunda-banda Seascape, and Tukang Besi Archipelago  are a particular focus because of their important location between the Pacific and Indian Oceans and are being addressed through the CTI initiative. The surface water masses come from the Pacific via the North Equatorial Current, which splits at the Philippines into the northward flowing Kuroshio Current and the southward flowing Mindanao Current. There are also numerous upwellings and the region is strongly influenced by the monsoons. It is a major migratory route for many large marine animals including cetaceans, sharks and rays, turtles and large fish, and the location of key feeding, breeding, calving and nesting grounds. The reefs are relatively healthy and well connected to other reefs by currents. MPA networks are being developed here for:
Bird's Head Seascape, Papua (North west Papua, formerly Irian Jaya): This comprises a number of components that will be linked in overall network. CI is looking at genetic differentiation between reef species:
n Raja Ampat MPA Network: an archipelago of c 600 islands west of Bird Head Peninsula. Important for sea turtle nesting, spawning aggregations, migrating cetaceans and high biodiversity (535 hard corals, 1149 fish species), with cool upwellings and likely high larval recruitment on account of strong currents between the Indian and Pacific Oceans. A network of seven MPAS extending over 900,000 ha was declared in May 2007, with support from TNC, WWF and CI;
D Kaimana MPA; D Teluk Cendrawasih.
Sunda-banda Seascape (Timor-leste): TNC
is assisting with the development of an MPA system for this ecoregion that will involve three replicated sites. One of these is the existing Komodo National Park and WHS, of global importance for the Komodo Dragon (the largest reptile in the world) as well as its high marine biodiversity (1000 fish species, 260 coral species, ten dolphins and six whales). Representation will be addressed by ensuring adequate protection of each 'seascape' within the ecoregion. The system will address connectivity by taking migration routes into account, given the importance of the area as a corridor for turtles and cetaceans; manta rays and other species are being radio-tagged. Resilient coral reefs, such as those in cooler southern waters and deeper channels, will be protected. A series of assessments are under way and Marxan will be used to identify candidate sites. A variety of governance approaches are likely to be used, according to the needs and wishes of local stakeholders. In 2006, the Ministry of Fisheries and Marine Affairs announced its intention to designate 12 million ha (120,000 km) in the Savu Sea as an "ecosystem-based management unit, and design a network of MPAS (Pet-soede, 2006); work started in 2008 on the 4 million ha Savu Sea MPA supported by TNC and WWF.
Tukang Besi Archipelago (off the southeast tip of Sulawesi): Includes the Wakatobi National Park. Declared in 1996, it covers 13,900 km; TNC and WWF are assisting with the development of an MPA system.
Indonesia is included in the SSMESSS described in section 522, the focus being Derawan MPA which is being supported by WWF and TNC. A network of MPAS is also being developed in Northern Aceh, Sumatra, where current MPAS do not achieve full habitat representation. A systematic conservation plan is being developed with a goal to protect 30% of coastal ecosystems. Satellite imagery, the bioregion approach of German (2005) and Marxan are being used to develop the plan. The approach of many small areas rather than a few large areas has been chosen because of habitat complexity, variation in accessibility and the large number of stakeholders involved. The process is being strengthened by the strong support among local communities for MPAS due to a traditional management system (Panglima laut) (Herdiana et al, 2008).
74

