DANGEROUS SEA LIFE
(3) Stonefish, Synanceja
Zebrafish are a beautiful and ornate shallow water fish of tropical and temperate seas. They parade about coral reefs, spreading their fan-like and lacy fins in much the same manner as peacocks. They are found in pairs and present an invitation to disaster if touched. Beneath the finery are hidden long, straight needle-sharp fin spines which are a spectacular menace to anyone exploring tropical coral areas. These fish are armed with as many as 18 potentially lethal spines, each equipped with venom.
The scorpionfish are inhabitants of shallow water bays and reefs. A habit of concealing themselves in crevices among debris, under rocks, or in seaweed along with a nearly perfect protective coloration makes this fish almost invisible. Upon discovery and removal from the water these fish erect spiny fins and spread out gill covers in an aggressive display.
Stonefish are encountered in tidepools and shoal areas. They lie motionless while concealed or even partly buried and are fearless or even disinterested in any careless intrusion. This presents a dangerous situation to anyone with bare feet. The fish is equipped with as many as 13 dorsal spines, 3 anal spines, and 2 pelvic spines; all are short and heavy with enlarged venom glands. In natural concealment, the fish looks like a piece of mud or debris.
Symptoms produced by all 3 types of scorpionfish vary in degree, but the pain is immediate, sharp, and radiates. Pain may cause a victim to thrash in a wild manner, scream, or lose consciousness. The immediate wound area may be pale, surrounded by a zone or redness, swelling, and heat. Paralysis of an entire arm or leg may result, and intense swelling of a member may impair movements. Many other symptoms may also be present. Death may be the result of an encounter, or the victim may recover after months of treatment but with general health impaired. Treatment, as for other venomous fish stings, must be administered promptly.
Prevention of the sting, based on previous experiences, depends udon the warning of individuals not to handle scorpionfish with unprotected hands. Attraction of the uninitiated to touch the lacy fins or the placing of hands or feet in crevices inhabited by the fish must be prevented to avoid the danger.
Recommended treatment of Venomous Fish Stings
Treatment of venomous fish stings should be directed to the achievement of 3 objectives:
1. Alleviate pain.
2. Combat the effects of the venom.
3. Prevent follow-up infections.
The pain is generally a direct result of the damage caused by the spine. Additional effects are produced by the venom and the introduction of slime and foreign material. Certain stings, as in the case of rays and catfish, may produce greater damage if spines are recurved or barbed edges are present. Such wounds should be carefully washed out or irrigated with cold salt water or with sterile saline, if available.
It is advisable in most cases to make a small incision across the sting wound. Immediate suction for removal of poison and irrigation should then be accomplished. Since fish do not inject venom in the manner of snakes, results from this suction are not entirely satisfactory.
Use of a ligature in the treatment of fish stings may help. The ligature, if used, should be placed immediately between the sting site and the body, as near the wound as possible. Adequate circulation should be allowed periodically every few minutes. Hot soaking of the wound site for 30 minutes to an hour should be maintained, with the water as hot as the patient can bear without injury. Hot, moist compresses may be used on areas not convenient for immersion. The addition of epsom salts to the water is believed beneficial. Following the soaking, a surgical removal of the lacerated or contaminated parts should precede closure of the wound by sutures. A small drain may be left for a day or two if the need is indicated by size or nature of the wound. The wound site should be covered with an antiseptic sterile dressing. Supportive measures, as described in "THE SHIPS MEDICINE CHEST AND FIRST AID AT SEA" under shock, should be attended to immediately. The patient must be watched carefully for complications and prompt attention given as described. The assistance of a physician should be obtained or medical advice requested by radio.
Reptiles
Notwithstanding all that has been Written concerning the subject of sea snakes, and the universal fear of most people concerning them, there has always been a great deal of misunderstanding concerning their actual existence. The sea snakes are closely allied to the cobras and form a specialized group, adapted by structure and habit to a marine existence. All are poisonous and many deadly, however, they will not generally attack without provocation and have often been described as docile in habit. Fishermen who unintentionally contact sea snakes in their work suffer most of the fatal bites. Fatalities are quite common in the Gulf of Siam and the Philippines area.
Few sea snakes exceed 4 feet, but 10 -foot specimens have been caught. Color is dark above and light below with cross-bands of black, purple, brown, gray, green, or yellow. All of the marine species may be distinguished from the land forms by a paddle-shaped tail. Any confusion with eels may be resolved by the fact that sea snakes are true snakes, and their bodies are covered by scales. Eyes are covered by transparent scales and have no lids. The tongue is slender and forked. Hollow venom fangs are present.
Marine snakes inhabit sheltered coastal waters, particularly the areas near river mouths. They penetrate upstream to the limits of brackish water, and a few species are found in fresh water. They tend to collect close along shore and among coral reefs in the breeding season, when they are more active and sometimes become aggressive. During this season, fishermen may net as many as a hundred at a time. This presents an especially hazardous condition, since some sea snakes have been reported to possess venom of a potency exceeding that of the king cobra.
Swimming is accomplished by a lateral undulation and use of the oar-like tail. A peculiar ability to move backwards as well as forward has been reported  Although sea snakes may float on the surface for extended periods of time, they are also able to remain submerged for hours. Most of their food is obtained underwater and consists nearly entirely of fish swallowed headfirst. Many of the items of food, such as eels and fish, are quickly killed by the deadly first bite of the snake. Like many other marine animals, sea snakes often feed at night and many are netted after dark when attracted by artificial lights exhibited by fishing boats. Individual snakes are frequently taken by line fishermen as they will readily accept the baited hook.
The yellow-bellied Sea Snake, Pelamis platunis, ventures beyond coastal waters and is the most widely distributed of all sea snakes. It exists in East Africa and Asian waters northward to Siberia, Japanese east coast, the Philippines, Oceania, and eastward to tropical America. The sea snake Enhydrina schistosa (Figure 19) is a more aggressive species which ranges from the Persian Gulf eastward to the north coast of Australia. Other species, nearly 50 in number, inhabit the tropical Pacific and Indian Oceans from the Persian Gulf to Samoa. They also follow the warm currents northward into the western Pacific to the Ryukyus and Japan. They are not known to inhabit the Atlantic.
34

