FISHERY RESOURCES OF THE PHILIPPINES, I. 521
a board. This operation is not necessarily done at any particular season, but whenever the condition demands it. The Oedogonium is sometimes purchased and placed in an exhausted pond. A small ianca load is worth one peso.
A so-called "medicine" for the young fish (apparently used only in small ponds where the water is contaminated by close proximity to houses) is the Lemna minor Linn, the floating roots of which are greedily devoured.
When the fr' are to be planted in the pond, the water is again allowed to drain off and the alga is partially killed by the hot sun. This, it is claimed, renders the Oedogonium soft and fragile for the tiny mouths. Eventually, the young amigos are removed to the great pond where their quantity is largely governed by the supply of the food alga.
The average value of the ponds about Manila Bay is probably 40 centavos per square meter, giving a total of more than 6,000,000 pesos for the pond value alone, which I am convinced is a conservative estimate. I chose one pond which measured 140 by 170 meters as an average of the twenty or more shown on a surveyor's map compiled from data obtained from the owners of the properties.
METHODS OF FISHING
It has been my privilege to make personal observations of the methods employed in the fisheries of various pai-ts of the world, in the United States, Alaska, New Zealand, Australia, Honolulu, and numerous Pacific Islands, also to some extent in Japan. Some time ago at the instance of the Secretary of the Interior, Mr. Dean C. Worcester and before I assumed my position in the Bureau of Science, I made a more detailed examination of the methods employed in the fisheries of the eastern United States in order to secure the latest information regarding the various kinds of nets and apparatus that could with profit be used to develop the commercial fisheries of the Philippine Islands.
It may not be out of place, therefore, to give brief descriptions of such apparatus as seems to me to be of especial value and short suggestions as to its use.
SEINES.
In the Atlantic fisheries a great man)-more fish are caught with the various kinds of spines than in any other way. In 1904, the New York fisheries alone captured by this method 214,099,735 pounds of fish, with a value of 836597 dollars. United States currency.
A full description as to detailed method of construction, size of twine, niesli, hanging of net and methods of using can be obtained by applying to the United States Division of Fisheries.

