The Forests and Waste Lands of Ceylon. 359 (Imperata arundinaced). Near water-courses the flora is that of the ordinary dry zone type. The Wet Zone includes the Western Province, the Province of Sabaragamuwa excluding the Kolonna Korale, the Galle and Matara Districts of the Southern Province, the Hill Districts of the Central and Uva Provinces and about one-half of the Kurunegala and Chilaw Districts of the North-western Province, or, in a few words, the South-western and South Central portions of the island. It is the portion which receives the full force of the South-west monsoon, and includes the higher lands affected by the North-east monsoon. The 'rainfall usually ranges from 80 to 200 inches, but it exceeds even this in some places, and rumour has it that in Eratne, to the Southwest of Adam's Peak, it actually does not fall far short of 400 inches. The Low-country "Wet Zone is the country par excellence of the Dipterocarps. In the Chilaw and Kurunegala Districts, and in the Northern portion of the Colombo District, they are represented only by Dipterocarpus zeylanicus, but further South and East they increase in number and species until, in many cases, they form almost the entire forest. No doubt, several new species will have to he added, and even since the first volume of Trimen's Flora has been published fresh discoveries have been made, a case in point feeing the Stemonoporus (? Vatica) Lewisi, which was found by Mr. F. Lewis of the Forest Department at about 1000' altitude above Pelmadulla. The curious almost wingless fruit of Shorea lissophylla was also found near the Bentote river in the Western Province. The forests of this zone, where they have been saved, are to the eye the most magnificent of the whole island, the trees often reaching a height of too feet to the first branch. On this account the trees are often difficult to identify, and it is probable that many are still unnamed, especially as it is not always possible to hit on new species at the time when they are in flower or fruit. The most beautiful of these forests is probably the forest of the Hinidun Pattu, in the Southern Province ; in it the most important Dipterocarps are Dipterocarpus kispidus, which in the South almost replaces D. zeylanicus, D. glandulosus, Shorea oblongifolia, Doona trapezifolia, which extends up to about 3000' above sea level, D. cordifolia, D. macrophylla, D. congestiflora, which produces a valuable timber, Hopea discolor and Vatica affinis. Vatica Roxburghiana is found near streams and in lands subject to inundation in the Western Province and in Sabaragamuwa, while Valeria acuminata, which also loves the neighbourhood of water, is found on more rocky ground. The Dipterocarps which are able to ascend to an elevation of 4000' are Doona zeylanica and D. Gardneri, .and Stemonoporus Gardneri, which has been found up to nearly 5000 feet. Among the natural orders, which are also widely represented, are the Guttiferæ, the Ebenacece, and the Sapotacece. The first-named is represented chiefly by the iron wood Mesuaferrea and M. Thwaitesii, 
