124 G. King — Materials for a Flora of the Malayan Peninsula. [No. 2, 1. Hopea nervosa, King, n. sp. A tree 50 to 70 feet high: young branches dark-coloured, glabrous. Leaves coriaceous, oblong to elliptic-oblong, shortly acuminate, the base rounded or very slightly cuneate; both surfaces glabrous; main nerves 16 to 18 pairs, spreading, bold and prominent on the lower; length 3.5 to 5 in., breadth 1.5 to 2.25 in.; petiole .5 to .75 in., transversely wrinkled when dry. Flowers unknown. Ripe fruit ovoid-rotund, apiculate, glabrous, .5 in. long; the two outer sepals much enlarged, oblong-lanceolate, obtuse, slightly narrowed to the concave thickened smooth base, 10-nerved, 4 to 4 -5 in. long, and .6 to .75 in. wide; the three inner sepals not quite so long as the fruit, broadly ovate, obtuse, thickened, smooth, closely embracing but not adherent to the fruit. Perak: King.s Collector, No. 3690. This is a very distinct species, belonging to the group of Hopea with the nerves of the leaves bold. It is so distinct that, contrary to my general practice, I venture to name it without having seen the flower. 2. Hopea Curtisii, King, n. sp. A tree 50 to 60 feet high: young branches slender, dark-coloured, lenticellate, almost glabrous. Leaves coriaceous, broadly ovate to ovatc-oblong, shortly acuminate or acute, the base slightly unequal-sided, rounded, rarely sub-cuneate; both surfaces glabrous, the upper slightly puberulous on the midrib near the base, the lower with several hairy glands at the base, the midrib sparsely and minutely stellate-puberulous; main nerves 10 to 13 pairs, curving, ascending, prominent beneath; length 35 to 4.5 in., breadth 1.75 to 2.5 in.; petiole .4 in., puberulous when young. Pani-cles axillary and terminal, lax, few-liowered. Flowers about .2 in. long, pedicelled. Sepals broadly ovate, blunt, concave, tomentose out-side, glabrous inside; the inner two rather smaller and more glabrous than the others. Petals oblong, oblique, falcate, obtuse, partially tomen-tose outside, glabrous inside. Stamens 10, the filaments short, dilated; anthers ovate, short, the connective with an apical awn longer than the anther. Ovary broadly ovate, puberulous at the truncate apex, otherwise glabrous: style short. Ripe fruit ovoid, apiculate, pale striate, .3 in. long; outer two sepals accrescent, narrowly-oblong, reti-culate, membranous, obscurely 5-nerved, obtuse, slightly narrowed to the concave smooth base, 175 to 2.5 in. long and from .35 to .6 in. broad; the three inner non-accrescent sepals about as long as the fruit. Penang: Curtis No. 1562. Perak: King.s Collector, 8161. 3. Hopea miceantha, Hook. fil. in Trans. Linn. Soc, xxiii, 160. A tree 60 to 80 feet high: young branches slender with dark-coloured, lenticellate bark and minute brownish pubescence. Leaves coriaceous, 
