AUTOPSIES AT THE PHILIPPINE MEDICAL SCHOOL. 213
condition was found to a greater or less degree twenty-seven times, or in about 90 per cent of the cases of pulmonary involvement.
Histologically, the irregular, ragged walls of these cavities were in the majority of instances not definitely limited by any marked reaction on the part of the surrounding lung tissue. A definite formation of new fibrous tissue was found in but one-third of the eases and this zone was nearly always lined with a layer of newly formed tuberculous tissue.
Extensive areas of consolidation were frequently found associated with the cavity formation, and in a contiguous portion or adjoining lobe great showers of military and conglomerate tubercles were encountered.
The pleura was involved in all cases, the involvement consisting in a chronic, fibrous thickening and obliteration of the cavity which varied from a localized area to complete union of the surfaces. In addition to the cases of tuberculosis, pleural lesions were found very frequently, 50 per cent of the cases included in this report showing some pleural involvement.
Tuberculous peritonitis was the cause of death in four cases. One of these showed a small, active focus of the disease in the lungs, one an apparently healed apical lesion, and after a prolonged search the other two revealed no pulmonary involvement. Tuberculosis of the vertebras occurred but once and of the bladder three times; psoas abscess was also present once. Latent tubercular lesions were found in the lungs in but 2 of the 100 cases, and healed foci occurred in but 6.
In connection with this evidence of the virulence of the tubercle bacillus, it is interesting to note that cultures of the organism obtained by subcutaneous inoculation of guinea pigs and subsequent transference from their glands, to suitable media, were kept alive with considerable difficulty and soon died out after a very sparse growth.
pneumonia.
Pneumonia was the cause of, death in 27 cases, 11 of these being croupous or lobar, and 16 broncho-pneumonia, the majority of the cases occurring in j r young adults and three-fourths coming from the city proper. A summary of the cases of lobar pneumonia shows that all lobes of both lungs were involved in 1 ease, the entire right lung in 1, the left lower lobe in 5, the remaining 4 cases showing involvement of but one lobe. All were accompanied by an exudation of a fibrinous nature upon the pleural surface of the involved lung.
Death in this series of 11 cases occurred early in the disease in four instances, and during the stage of red hepatization in two instances. In the former, the tissue involved was in an early stage of engorgement with greatly distended capillaries and swollen epithelium surrounding but a small number of red corpuscles. The remaining five cases showed typical, gray hepatization.

