120 Dipterocarpaceae. [Hopea. with a fugaceous whitish or cream-coloured soft tomentum or pubes-cencel bak greyish-brown, rough and eroded, very thick, deeply cracked and brittle; leaves from oblong to ovate-oblong, on a 1 1/2 to 2 1/2 in. long, glabrous petiole thickened at the summit, more or less cordate or rounded at base, 7-10 in. long, bluntish or slightly apiculate, chartaceous, while very young whitish-tomentose beneath, soon quite glabrous, the nerves parallel and slightly curved, with prominent, but thin transverse veins; flowers showy, waxy-yellow, on 1-1 1/2 lin. long, smooth pedicels, racemose, forming purplish-coloured or green, smooth or pruinose, lax panicles above the scars of the fallen leaves; fruiting calyx not enlarged, but the pedicels thickened and resembling a calyx-tube; nut quite glabrous, the size of a small cherry, ovoid, enclosed by the imbricate broad thickened bases of the wing-like calyx-lobes, the latter obovate-lanceolate, blunt, much narrowed towards the dilated base, the 2 inner ones somewhat shorter. Hab.—Very frequent in the Eng and dry forests, more especially in those of Ava and the Prome district, less frequent from the Pegu and Martaban down to Tenasserim.—Fl. March; Fr. Apr.-May.—l.—SS.=CaS. Lat. Remarks.—Wood dark or reddish-brown, tough and hard, close-grained, very heavy, and said to be as durable as teak. ‘=55 pd.—Used in house-build-ing, for bows etc.—Exudes a red resin. Hopea, Roxb. Calyx-tube very short, the lobes imbricate. Stamens 15; anther-valves nearly equaal, the connective terminating in a short point or produced into a long bristle. Ovary free, 3-celled. Calyx-tube in fruit not enlarged, 2 of the 5 lobes wing-like enlarged, the 3 outer ones remaining very short. Nut embraced by the calyx-lobes.—Trees, with entire leaves and racemose flowers forming axillary panicles. * Connective terminated by a short point. Calyx greyish-tomentose; flowers somewhat larger leaves glossy above . . . . . . . . . . . H. gratissima. Calyx glabrescent; leaves opaque on both sides . . . . H. oblongifolia. Calyx almost glabrous; flowers very small; leaves glossy above . H. Griffithii. 1. H. odorata, Roxb.; H.f. Ind. Fl. i. 308.—Thengan.—An evergreen tree (100—120+40–70+10—12), the young shoots greyish puberulous; bark about 1/2 in. thick, blackish-brown, longitudi-nally and deeply furrowed, rough; leaves ovate-oblong to ovate-or oblong-lanceolate, on slender petioles, usually obtuse at the unequal base, bluntish or bluntish acuminate, coriaceous, somewhat puberous 
