356 The Philippine Journal of Science ww
differs considerably from the specimens described by de Man and by Coutiere.
The specimens listed in Table III were all seen by me while they were still alive. Judging from certain characteristic color markings, especially the pattern on the chelipeds, which were present in specimens of all sizes and sexes, one could not fail to include them under one species. Even the young mature males (Nos. 15 and 20) with the exceptionally long chelipeds showed the characteristic markings.
Notwithstanding the differences between our large males and the smaller males described by de Man, I do not feel justified in establishing a new species until larger collections of the Javan form are made.
While I have not been able to see any figures or specimens of the American species, Palaemon acanthurus Wiegmann, 37 except Ortmann's 38 drawing of the telson which agrees well with young individuals of this species, the descriptions indicate that it is a larger form, although I believe our series does not include the largest specimens to be found. The proportion of the palm to the fingers in old males and the shape of the rostrum are different, but the coat of felted hairs on the fingers of the males is present in both. I believe that Palaemon acanthurus Wiegmann and the form under consideration are closely related, and I should not be surprised if, when further collections of Palaemon sundaicus from Java are made, older males with more mature characters are brought to light which will ally the Javan species closer to Palaemon acanthurus.
Rostrum and antennal scales. — The position of the tip of the rostrum with reference to the tip of the antennal scale does not vary much in our specimens. In both males and females the tip may be even with, extend slightly beyond, or fail slightly to reach, the distal end of the scale. It is possible, however, that in larger males the rostrum may not extend so far forward.
Curvature and dental formula of rostrum. — There is little difference in the shape of the rostrum in the males and females of all ages. The distal third is turned upward somewhat, and there is in nearly every case a gentle convexity over the eye. Usually there are 3 rostral teeth on the carapace, the fourth being over the edge of the orbit, and rarely are there 2 or 4 on the carapace. The rostral ridge divides the lateral surface of the rostrum into an upper and a lower area which are of
"Arch. f. Naturgesch. (1836), 1, 150.
m Zool. Jahrb, Systematik (1891) 5, Tafel XLVII, Fig. 5.

