112 G. King — Materials for a Flora of the Malayan Peninsula. [No. 2, rufous-tomentose as are the inflorescence and petioles. Leaves coria-ceous, oblong or elliptic-oblong (rarely slightly ob-ovate), very shortly acuminate or sub-acute, slightly narrowed to the rounded or sub-cuneate base; upper surface shining, sparsely stellate-tomentose, the depressed midrib and nerves puberulous; lower surface scaberulous, more densely stellate-pubescent, especially on the bold midrib and 20 to 22 pairs of stout spreading main nerves; length 3.5 to 6.5 in., breadth 15 to 275 in., petiole .6 to .8 in. Panicles axillary and terminal, 3 to 7 in. long, the ultimate branches bearing 4 or 5 distichous, secund, brac-teate, sessile flowers; bracts broadly ovate, puberulous outside. Sepals ovate, the two inner smaller, all densely golden-sericeous outside, glabrous inside. Petals like the sepals and of about the same length, the inside and one-half of the outer glabrous, the other half adpress-ed-sericeous. Stamens about 40, in several rows; the filaments of the outer shorter, all longer than the anthers; anthers ovate, mostly in-appendiculate, a few with a minute appendix. Ovary elongated, conic, sericeous; the style short, glabrous; stigma small. Fruit (immature) narrowly ovoid, .5 in. long, embraced by, but not adnate to, the accres-cent membranous calyx-wings: the outer 3 calyx-wings linear-oblong obtuse, narrowed to the base, 3.5 in. long and .6 in. broad, 10-nerved; the 2 inner 2.5 in. long and much narrower and fewer-nerved, sparsely pubescent. Malacca: Maingay (Kew. Distrib.) No. 202. Penang: Curtis, No. 431. Perak: King.s Collector, No. 3511. This resembles S. lacunosa Scheff., but differs in not having persis-tent stipules. Its vernacular name in Penang is Seraya. 5. Shorea parvifolia, Dyer in Hook. fil. El. Br. Ind., I., 305. A tree 100 to 150 feet high; young branches slender, pale tomentose at first, ultimately glabrous, dark-coloured and lenticellate. Leaves coria-ceous, ovate to ovate-lanceolate, caudate-acuminate, the base sub-cuneate or almost rounded; upper surface glabrous (when young the midrib tomentose or pubescent); under surface sparsely scaly-pubescent when young, when adult minutely pubescent, the transverse veins thick; main nerves 9 to 12 pairs, oblique, rather straight, prominent beneath: length 2.5 to 4 in., breadth 1 to 1.8 in.; petiole .35 to .45 in., tomentose when young. Panicles axillary and terminal, crowded near the ends of the branches, 2 to 4 in. long, rather lax, spreading, many-flowered, minutely tomentose, the branches distichous. Flowers .25 in. long, secund, distichous, deciduously bracteate. Sepals slightly unequal, ovate, acute, tomentose outside, glabrous inside. Petals twice as long as the sepals, obliquely elliptic, obtuse, glabrous, except on one-half outside which is silky. Stamens 15, or fewer: the filaments flatten-
