254 FOXWORTHY. minute round scales. The occurrence of these hairs and scales is very in-constant. The scales are present in all cases, though there may be but a few in some cases. The stellate hairs, on the other hand, are frequently wanting and their place may be taken by roughened scurfy patches along the under surface of the veins. 

In the circumference of the pith there are 18 to 24 resin-ducts, often large and close together. In the petiole, the outer low of 7 to 13 vascular bundles forms a closed line, each one containing a resin-duct. In the center is a mass of vascular tissue which is relatively free from resin-ducts. ft/ Wood white, yellowish or pinkish, no distinction between heartwood and sapwood except a slightly darker color in the heart. Xo distinct rings of seasonal growth. Slightly resinous odor when fresh, a sour and disagreeable odor if the wood has been left standing in a wet place for some time. A wood oil is present in the wood and the vessels containing it have often been mistaken for resin ducts. The oil can be secured as in Dipterocarpus though it is not commonly collected. It solidifies quickly into a more or less whitish lesin. Pith-rays of two sorts, moder-ately broad and fine. Vessels of medium size. Wood parenchyma not prominent. Wood from young trees coarse-grained, brittle, rather dif-ficult to work. "Wood from mature trees of very good quality and seems to be fairly durable, being used for planks, crossbeams, etc. There may be a definite period of leaf -fall; but, it is not as pronounced as in Dipterocarpus. The seeds germinate rather quickly after falling to the ground. The fruit is starchy and does not last long. This may be due to decay or to destruction by insects or other animals. The young seedlings do well in the shade. The flowers are borne in great quantity and are yellow. The flowering period for an individual tree is said to be not more than one month in length. The flowers arc sometimes distinctly fragrant. There are about fifteen species in the genus. Heretofore, no Philippine species has been credited to any region outside the Archipelago. It is, however, sufficiently apparent that our Anisoptera thurifera occurs in the Malay Peninsula, where it is usually identified as A. glabra and A. curtisii is here reported for the first time from these Islands. This make? A. curtisii the most widely distributed member of the genus. This genus in the Philippines gives the extreme northeastern range of the family. It also occurs almost as far north in the Philippines as it does in Burma. 1. Anisoptera brunnea sp. nov. Plate XL. Arbor magna. Folia oblanceolata vel elliptica, coriacea, superne glabra; infra tomentosa, brunnoa; lamina G ad 12' cm longa, 3.5 and 5.o cm lata, nervis secundariis utrinque 12 ad 15; petiolo 2 ad 4.5 cm longo-
